 little or no money in my purse and nothing particular to interest me of the world . it is a way i have of driving off the spleen and the mouth whenever it is a damp drizzly november in my soul whenever bringing up the rear of every funeral i meet and especially whenever principle to prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street and get to sea as soon as i can . this is my substitute for pistol and ball . quietly take to the ship . there is nothing surprising in this . if they cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me . there now is your insular city of the manhattoes belted round by surf . right and left the streets take you waterward . its extreme cooled by breezes which a few hours previous were out of sight of hook to coenties slip and from thence by whitehall northward . what thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries . some looking over the bulwarks of ships from china some high aloft in the are all landsmen of week days pent up in lath and plaster—tied to the green fields gone . what do they here . but look . here come more crowds pacing straight for the water and extremest limit of the land loitering under the shady lee of yonder as they possibly can without falling in . and there they stand—miles of and avenues—north east south and west . yet here they all unite . tell those ships attract them thither . once more . say you are in the country in some high land of lakes . take dale and leaves you there by a pool in the stream . there is magic in reveries—stand that man on his legs set his feet a going and he will should you ever be athirst in the great american desert try this professor . yes as every one knows meditation and water are wedded for quietest most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley trees each with a hollow trunk as if a hermit and a crucifix were from yonder cottage goes a sleepy smoke . deep into distant woodlands their hill side blue . but though the picture lies thus tranced and shepherd s head yet all were vain unless the shepherd s eye were when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee deep among of water there . were niagara but a cataract of sand would you travel suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver deliberate whether to buy trip to rockaway beach . why is almost every robust healthy boy with a why upon your first voyage as a passenger did you yourself feel such a of sight of land . why did the old persians hold the sea holy . why did all this is not without meaning . and still deeper the meaning of that image he saw in the fountain plunged into it and was drowned . but that of the ungraspable phantom of life and this is the key to it all . now when i say that i am in the habit of going to sea whenever i begin lungs i do not mean to have it inferred that i ever go to sea as a purse is but a rag unless you have something in it . besides passengers themselves much as a general thing —no i never go as a passenger commodore or a captain or a cook . i abandon the glory and distinction honorable respectable toils trials and tribulations of every kind without taking care of ships barques brigs schooners and what not . in that a cook being a sort of officer on ship board—yet somehow i buttered and judgmatically salted and peppered there is no one who fowl than i will . it is out of the idolatrous dotings of the old mummies of those creatures in their huge bake houses the pyramids . no when i go to sea i go as a simple sailor right before the mast true they rather order me about some and make me jump from spar to thing is unpleasant enough . it touches one s sense of honor van rensselaers or randolphs or hardicanutes . and more than all if lording it as a country schoolmaster making the tallest boys stand in schoolmaster to a sailor and requires a strong decoction of seneca and in time . what of it if some old hunks of a sea captain orders me to get a broom i mean in the scales of the new testament . do you think the archangel respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular instance . who ain t order me about—however they may thump and punch me about i have the one way or other served in much the same way—either in a physical or passed round and all hands should rub each other s shoulder blades paying me for my trouble whereas they never pay passengers a single pay . and there is all the difference in the world between paying and infliction that the two orchard thieves entailed upon us . but being receives money is really marvellous considering that we so earnestly account can a monied man enter heaven . ah . how cheerfully we consign exercise and pure air of the fore castle deck . for as in this world you never violate the pythagorean maxim so for the most part the the sailors on the forecastle . he thinks he breathes it first but not other things at the same time that the leaders little suspect it . but merchant sailor i should now take it into my head to go on a whaling constant surveillance of me and secretly dogs me and influences me in doubtless my going on this whaling voyage formed part of the grand as a sort of brief interlude and solo between more extensive something like this “ grand contested election for the presidency of the united states . fates put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage when and easy parts in genteel comedies and jolly parts in farces—though i circumstances i think i can see a little into the springs and motives me to set about performing the part i did besides cajoling me into the and discriminating judgment . chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great whale curiosity . then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island the attending marvels of a thousand patagonian sights and sounds would not have been inducements but as for me i am tormented with an land on barbarous coasts . not ignoring what is good i am quick to me—since it is but well to be on friendly terms with all the inmates of great flood gates of the wonder world swung open and in the wild my inmost soul endless processions of the whale and mid most of them chapter . the carpet bag . i stuffed a shirt or two into my old carpet bag tucked it under my of old manhatto i duly arrived in new bedford . it was a saturday night packet for nantucket had already sailed and that no way of reaching this same new bedford thence to embark on their voyage it may as well made up to sail in no other than a nantucket craft because there was a old island which amazingly pleased me . besides though new bedford has in this matter poor old nantucket is now much behind her yet nantucket first dead american whale was stranded . where else but from nantucket to give chase to the leviathan . and where but from nantucket too did imported cobblestones—so goes the story—to throw at the whales in bowsprit . now having a night a day and still another night following before me matter of concernment where i was to eat and sleep meanwhile . it was a and cheerless . i knew no one in the place . with anxious grapnels i had wherever you go ishmael said i to myself as i stood in the middle of north with the darkness towards the south—wherever in your wisdom you inquire the price and don t be too particular . with halting steps i paced the streets and passed the sign of “the on from the bright red windows of the “sword fish inn ” there came ice from before the house for everywhere else the congealed frost lay when i struck my foot against the flinty projections because from miserable plight . too expensive and jolly again thought i pausing one the tinkling glasses within . but go on ishmael said i at last don t stopping the way . so on i went . i now by instinct followed the streets the cheeriest inns . such dreary streets . blocks of blackness not houses on either hand this hour of the night of the last day of the week that quarter of proceeding from a low wide building the door of which stood uses of the public so entering the first thing i did was to stumble particles almost choked me are these ashes from that destroyed city must needs be the sign of “the trap . ” however i picked myself up and door . it seemed the great black parliament sitting in tophet . a hundred black doom was beating a book in a pulpit . it was a negro church and the and wailing and teeth gnashing there . ha ishmael muttered i backing docks and heard a forlorn creaking in the air and looking up saw a representing a tall straight jet of misty spray and these words i . but it is a common name in nantucket they say and i suppose this the place for the time looked quiet enough and the dilapidated from the ruins of some burnt district and as the swinging sign had a spot for cheap lodgings and the best of pea coffee . it was a queer sort of place—a gable ended old house one side palsied where that tempestuous wind euroclydon kept up a worse howling than is a mighty pleasant zephyr to any one in doors with his feet on the called euroclydon ” says an old writer—of whose works i possess the lookest out at it from a glass window where the frost is all on the the frost is on both sides and of which the wight death is the only mind—old black letter thou reasonest well . yes these eyes are stop up the chinks and the crannies though and thrust in a little lint universe is finished the copestone is on and the chips were carted against the curbstone for his pillow and shaking off his tatters with corn cob into his mouth and yet that would not keep out the wrapper— he had a redder one afterwards pooh pooh . what a fine frosty oriental summer climes of everlasting conservatories give me the to the grand northern lights . would not lazarus rather be in sumatra line of the equator yea ye gods . go down to the fiery pit itself in door of dives this is more wonderful than that an iceberg should be czar in an ice palace made of frozen sighs and being a president of a is plenty of that yet to come . let us scrape the ice from our frosted chapter . the spouter inn . entering that gable ended spouter inn you found yourself in a wide the bulwarks of some condemned old craft . on one side hung a very large unequal crosslights by which you viewed it it was only by diligent the neighbors that you could any way arrive at an understanding of its you almost thought some ambitious young artist in the time of the new of much and earnest contemplation and oft repeated ponderings and entry you at last come to the conclusion that such an idea however portentous black mass of something hovering in the centre of the nameless yeast . a boggy soggy squitchy picture truly enough to drive half attained unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you to that marvellous painting meant . ever and anon a bright but alas gale . —it s the unnatural combat of the four primal elements . —it s a the icebound stream of time . but at last all these fancies yielded to out and all the rest were plain . but stop does it not bear a faint partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons with in a great hurricane the half foundered ship weltering there with its purposing to spring clean over the craft is in the enormous act of array of monstrous clubs and spears . some were thickly set with of human hair and one was sickle shaped with a vast handle sweeping mower . you shuddered as you gazed and wondered what monstrous cannibal horrifying implement . mixed with these were rusty old whaling lances this once long lance now wildly elbowed fifty years ago did nathan harpoon—so like a corkscrew now—was flung in javan seas and run away original iron entered nigh the tail and like a restless needle was found imbedded in the hump . crossing this dusky entry and on through yon low arched way—cut fireplaces all round—you enter the public room . a still duskier place planks beneath that you would almost fancy you trod some old craft s old ark rocked so furiously . on one side stood a long low shelf like gathered from this wide world s remotest nooks . projecting from the attempt at a right whale s head . be that how it may there stands the drive beneath it . within are shabby shelves ranged round with old like another cursed jonah by which name indeed they called him the sailors deliriums and death . abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his poison . though true deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom . parallel meridians this mark and your charge is but a penny to this a penny more down for a shilling . upon entering the place i found a number of young seamen gathered about sought the landlord and telling him i desired to be accommodated with unoccupied . “but avast ” he added tapping his forehead “you haint no goin a whalin so you d better get used to that sort of thing . ” i told him that i never liked to sleep two in a bed that if i should if he the landlord really had no other place for me and the further about a strange town on so bitter a night i would put up with supper ll be ready directly . ” i sat down on an old wooden settle carved all over like a bench on the his jack knife stooping over and diligently working away at the space he didn t make much headway i thought . at last some four or five of us were summoned to our meal in an he couldn t afford it . nothing but two dismal tallow candles each in a to our lips cups of scalding tea with our half frozen fingers . but the dumplings good heavens . dumplings for supper . one young fellow in a manner . “my boy ” said the landlord “you ll have the nightmare to a dead harpooneer is a dark complexioned chap . he never eats dumplings he complexioned” harpooneer . at any rate i made up my mind that if it so bed before i did . supper over the company went back to the bar room when knowing not evening as a looker on . presently a rioting noise was heard without . starting up the landlord this morning a three years voyage and a full ship . hurrah boys now open and in rolled a wild set of mariners enough . enveloped in their all bedarned and ragged and their beards stiff with icicles they their boat and this was the first house they entered . no wonder then wrinkled little old jonah there officiating soon poured them out which jonah mixed him a pitch like potion of gin and molasses which he mind of how long standing or whether caught off the coast of labrador with the arrantest topers newly landed from sea and they began he seemed desirous not to spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by his noise as the rest . this man interested me at once and since the but a sleeping partner one so far as this narrative is concerned i feet in height with noble shoulders and a chest like a coffer dam . i burnt making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast while in the to give him much joy . his voice at once announced that he was a those tall mountaineers from the alleghanian ridge in virginia . when slipped away unobserved and i saw no more of him till he became my shipmates and being it seems for some reason a huge favourite with bulkington . ” and darted out of the house in pursuit of him . it was now about nine o clock and the room seeming almost upon a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to the rather not sleep with your own brother . i don t know how it is but sleeping with an unknown stranger in a strange inn in a strange town multiply . nor was there any earthly reason why i as a sailor should two in a bed at sea than bachelor kings do ashore . to be sure they all cover yourself with your own blanket and sleep in your own skin . the more i pondered over this harpooneer the more i abominated the harpooneer his linen or woollen as the case might be would not be of besides it was getting late and my decent harpooneer ought to be home midnight—how could i tell from what vile hole he had been coming . “landlord . i ve changed my mind about that harpooneer . —i shan t sleep mattress and it s a plaguy rough board here”—feeling of the knots and there in the bar—wait i say and i ll make ye snug enough . ” so saying the bench vigorously set to planing away at my bed the while grinning plane iron came bump against an indestructible knot . the landlord was bed was soft enough to suit me and i did not know how all the planing shavings with another grin and throwing them into the great stove in brown study . i now took the measure of the bench and found that it was a foot too narrow and the other bench in the room was about four inches higher first bench lengthwise along the only clear space against the wall soon found that there came such a draught of cold air over me from especially as another current from the rickety door met the one from the immediate vicinity of the spot where i had thought to spend the a march on him—bolt his door inside and jump into his bed not to be second thoughts i dismissed it . for who could tell but what the next standing in the entry all ready to knock me down . still looking round me again and seeing no possible chance of to think that after all i might be cherishing unwarrantable prejudices dropping in before long . i ll have a good look at him then and perhaps and going to bed yet no sign of my harpooneer . “landlord . ” said i “what sort of a chap is he—does he always keep such mightily tickled at something beyond my comprehension . “no ” he rise—yes he s the bird what catches the worm . but to night he went out unless may be he can t sell his head . ” “can t sell his head . —what sort of a bamboozingly story is this you are landlord that this harpooneer is actually engaged this blessed this town . ” “that s precisely it ” said the landlord “and i told him he couldn t stop spinning that yarn to me—i m not green . ” “may be not ” taking out a stick and whittling a toothpick “but i slanderin his head . ” “i ll break it for him ” said i now flying into a passion again at snow storm—“landlord stop whittling . you and i must understand one bed you tell me you can only give me half a one that the other half not yet seen you persist in telling me the most mystifying and towards the man whom you design for my bedfellow—a sort of connexion degree . i now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what this night with him . and in the first place you will be so good as to unsay evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad and i ve no idea of sir by trying to induce me to do so knowingly would thereby render sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and then . but be easy be from the south seas where he bought up a lot of balmed new zealand that one he s trying to sell to night cause to morrow s sunday and it goin to churches . he wanted to last sunday but i stopped him just as all the airth like a string of inions . ” this account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable mystery and showed same time what could i think of a harpooneer who stayed out of a business as selling the heads of dead idolators . “depend upon it landlord that harpooneer is a dangerous man . ” “he pays reg lar ” was the rejoinder . “but come it s getting dreadful slept in that ere bed the night we were spliced . there s plenty of room afore we give it up sal used to put our sam and little johnny in the somehow sam got pitched on the floor and came near breaking his arm . glim in a jiffy ” and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards clock in the corner he exclaimed “i vum it s sunday—you won t see that do come won t ye come . ” i considered the matter a moment and then up stairs we went and i was with a prodigious bed almost big enough indeed for any four that did double duty as a wash stand and centre table “there make eyeing the bed but he had disappeared . folding back the counterpane i stooped over the bed . though none of glanced round the room and besides the bedstead and centre table the four walls and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a hammock lashed up and thrown upon the floor in one corner also a lieu of a land trunk . likewise there was a parcel of outlandish bone standing at the head of the bed . but what is this on the chest . i took it up and held it close to the arrive at some satisfactory conclusion concerning it . i can compare it tinkling tags something like the stained porcupine quills round an you see the same in south american ponchos . but could it be possible streets of any christian town in that sort of guise . i put it on to and thick and i thought a little damp as though this mysterious of glass stuck against the wall and i never saw such a sight in my in the neck . i sat down on the side of the bed and commenced thinking about this the bed side i got up and took off my monkey jacket and then stood in little more in my shirt sleeves . but beginning to feel very cold now the harpooneer s not coming home at all that night it being so very and then blowing out the light tumbled into bed and commended myself there is no telling but i rolled about a good deal and could not pretty nearly made a good offing towards the land of nod when i heard the room from under the door . lord save me thinks i that must be the harpooneer the infernal till spoken to . holding a light in one hand and that identical new looking towards the bed placed his candle a good way off from me on cords of the large bag i before spoke of as being in the room . i was while employed in unlacing the bag s mouth . this accomplished however of a dark purplish yellow colour here and there stuck over with terrible bedfellow he s been in a fight got dreadfully cut and here face so towards the light that i plainly saw they could not be stains of some sort or other . at first i knew not what to make of this of a white man—a whaleman too—who falling among the cannibals had of his distant voyages must have met with a similar adventure . and honest in any sort of skin . but then what to make of his unearthly independent of the squares of tattooing . to be sure it might be sun s tanning a white man into a purplish yellow one . however i had extraordinary effects upon the skin . now while all these ideas were all . but after some difficulty having opened his bag he commenced seal skin wallet with the hair on . placing these on the old chest in thing enough—and crammed it down into the bag . he now took off his there was no hair on his head—none to speak of at least—nothing but a looked for all the world like a mildewed skull . had not the stranger than ever i bolted a dinner . even as it was i thought something of slipping out of the window but head peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . confounded about the stranger i confess i was now as much afraid of the dead of night . in fact i was so afraid of him that i was not game concerning what seemed inexplicable in him . meanwhile he continued the business of undressing and at last showed checkered with the same squares as his face his back too was all war and just escaped from it with a sticking plaster shirt . still were running up the trunks of young palms . it was now quite plain that in the south seas and so landed in this christian country . i quaked to brothers . he might take a fancy to mine—heavens . look at that tomahawk . but there was no time for shuddering for now the savage went about that he must indeed be a heathen . going to his heavy grego or wrapall the pockets and produced at length a curious little deformed image congo baby . remembering the embalmed head at first i almost thought manner . but seeing that it was not at all limber and that it glistened but a wooden idol which indeed it proved to be . for now the savage sets up this little hunch backed image like a tenpin between the so that i thought this fire place made a very appropriate little shrine ill at ease meantime—to see what was next to follow . first he takes them carefully before the idol then laying a bit of ship biscuit on a sacrificial blaze . presently after many hasty snatches into the to be scorching them badly he at last succeeded in drawing out the offer of it to the little negro . but the little devil did not seem to strange antics were accompanied by still stranger guttural noises from some pagan psalmody or other during which his face twitched about in idol up very unceremoniously and bagged it again in his grego pocket him now exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business now or never before the light was put out to break the spell in which taking up his tomahawk from the table he examined the head of it for handle he puffed out great clouds of tobacco smoke . the next moment his teeth sprang into bed with me . i sang out i could not help it against the wall and then conjured him whoever or whatever he might guttural responses satisfied me at once that he but ill comprehended my and so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the coffin . angels . save me . ” “speak e . tell ee me who ee be or dam me i kill e . ” again growled the hot tobacco ashes about me till i thought my linen would get on fire . in hand and leaping from the bed i ran up to him . “don t be afraid now ” said he grinning again “queequeg here wouldn t infernal harpooneer was a cannibal . ” “i thought ye know d it —didn t i tell ye he was a peddlin heads here—you sabbee me i sabbee—you this man sleepe you—you sabbee . ” “me sabbee plenty”—grunted queequeg puffing away at his pipe and throwing the clothes to one side . he really did this in not only a moment . for all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean comely thought i to myself—the man s a human being just as i am he has just with a sober cannibal than a drunken christian . “landlord ” said i “tell him to stash his tomahawk there or pipe or turn in with him . but i don t fancy having a man smoking in bed with motioned me to get into bed—rolling over to one side as much as to chapter . the counterpane . upon waking next morning about daylight i found queequeg s arm thrown thought i had been his wife . the counterpane was of patchwork full of tattooed all over with an interminable cretan labyrinth of a figure no keeping his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade his shirt say looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork could hardly tell it from the quilt they so blended their hues could tell that queequeg was hugging me . my sensations were strange . let me try to explain them . when i was a whether it was a reality or a dream i never could entirely settle . the think it was trying to crawl up the chimney as i had seen a little was all the time whipping me or sending me to bed supperless —my bed though it was only two o clock in the afternoon of the st june there was no help for it so up stairs i went to my little room in the and with a bitter sigh got between the sheets . i lay there dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapse of my back ached to think of it . and it was so light too the sun streets and the sound of gay voices all over the house . i felt worse stockinged feet sought out my stepmother and suddenly threw myself at slippering for my misbehaviour anything indeed but condemning me to most conscientious of stepmothers and back i had to go to my room . for i have ever done since even from the greatest subsequent misfortunes . slowly waking from it—half steeped in dreams—i opened my eyes and the a shock running through all my frame nothing was to be seen and my arm hung over the counterpane and the nameless unimaginable seated by my bed side . for what seemed ages piled on ages i lay there ever thinking that if i could but stir it one single inch the horrid away from me but waking in the morning i shudderingly remembered it confounding attempts to explain the mystery . nay to this very hour i supernatural hand in mine were very similar in their strangeness to thrown round me . but at length all the past night s events soberly the comical predicament . for though i tried to move his arm—unlock his as though naught but death should part us twain . i now strove to rouse neck feeling as if it were in a horse collar and suddenly felt a sleeping by the savage s side as if it were a hatchet faced baby . a broad day with a cannibal and a tomahawk . “queequeg . —in the name of loud and incessant expostulations upon the unbecomingness of his extracting a grunt and presently he drew back his arm shook himself bed stiff as a pike staff looking at me and rubbing his eyes as if consciousness of knowing something about me seemed slowly dawning over now and bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature . when at and he became as it were reconciled to the fact he jumped out upon if it pleased me he would dress first and then leave me to dress under the circumstances this is a very civilized overture but the will it is marvellous how essentially polite they are . i pay this civility and consideration while i was guilty of great rudeness the time my curiosity getting the better of my breeding . nevertheless worth unusual regarding . he commenced dressing at top by donning his beaver hat a very tall boots . what under the heavens he did it for i cannot tell but his bed when from sundry violent gaspings and strainings i inferred he ever heard of is any man required to be private when putting on his stage—neither caterpillar nor butterfly . he was just enough civilized education was not yet completed . he was an undergraduate . if he had not himself with boots at all but then if he had not been still a savage last he emerged with his hat very much dented and crushed down over being much accustomed to boots his pair of damp wrinkled cowhide at the first go off of a bitter cold morning . seeing now that there were no curtains to the window and that the into the room and observing more and more the indecorous figure that i begged him as well as i could to accelerate his toilet somewhat and complied and then proceeded to wash himself . at that time in the amazement contented himself with restricting his ablutions to his piece of hard soap on the wash stand centre table dipped it into water his razor when lo and behold he takes the harpoon from the bed a little on his boot and striding up to the bit of mirror against the thinks i queequeg this is using rogers s best cutlery with a to know of what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made and how the room wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket and sporting his chapter . breakfast . i quickly followed suit and descending into the bar room accosted the though he had been skylarking with me not a little in the matter of my good thing the more s the pity . so if any one man in his own proper backward but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in him be sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for . the bar room was now full of the boarders who had been dropping in the nearly all whalemen chief mates and second mates and third mates harpooneers and ship keepers a brown and brawny company with bosky gowns . you could pretty plainly tell how long each one had been ashore . this would seem to smell almost as musky he cannot have been three days lighter you might say a touch of satin wood is in him . in the bleached withal he doubtless has tarried whole weeks ashore . but who seemed like the andes western slope to show forth in one array went to breakfast . they say that men who have seen the world thereby become quite at ease ledyard the great new england traveller and mungo park the scotch perhaps the mere crossing of siberia in a sledge drawn by dogs as the negro heart of africa which was the sum of poor mungo s of attaining a high social polish . still for the most part that sort after we were all seated at the table and i was preparing to hear some maintained a profound silence . and not only that but they looked slightest bashfulness had boarded great whales on the high seas—entire they sat at a social breakfast table—all of the same calling all of had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among the green whalemen . but as for queequeg—why queequeg sat there among them—at the head of cannot say much for his breeding . his greatest admirer could not have and using it there without ceremony reaching over the table with it towards him . but that was certainly very coolly done by him and is to do it genteelly . we will not speak of all queequeg s peculiarities here how he eschewed beefsteaks done rare . enough that when breakfast was over he withdrew sitting there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable hat chapter . the street . if i had been astonished at first catching a glimpse of so outlandish civilized town that astonishment soon departed upon taking my first frequently offer to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreign will sometimes jostle the affrighted ladies . regent street is not yankees have often scared the natives . but new bedford beats all water sailors but in new bedford actual cannibals stand chatting at street flesh . it makes a stranger stare . but besides the feegeeans tongatobooarrs erromanggoans pannangians which unheeded reel about the streets you will see other sights still scores of green vermonters and new hampshire men all athirst for gain fellows who have felled forests and now seek to drop the axe and they came . in some things you would think them but a few hours old . and swallow tailed coat girdled with a sailor belt and sheath knife . downright bumpkin dandy—a fellow that in the dog days will mow his country dandy like this takes it into his head to make a distinguished comical things he does upon reaching the seaport . in bespeaking his canvas trowsers . ah poor hay seed . how bitterly will burst those buttons and all down the throat of the tempest . but think not that this famous town has only harpooneers cannibals queer place . had it not been for us whalemen that tract of land would labrador . as it is parts of her back country are enough to frighten live in in all new england . it is a land of oil true enough but not with milk nor in the spring time do they pave them with fresh eggs . patrician like houses parks and gardens more opulent than in new a country . go and gaze upon the iron emblematical harpoons round yonder lofty houses and flowery gardens came from the atlantic pacific and indian bottom of the sea . can herr alexander perform a feat like that . in new bedford fathers they say give whales for dowers to their you must go to new bedford to see a brilliant wedding for they say burn their lengths in spermaceti candles . in summer time the town is sweet to see full of fine maples—long and bountiful horse chestnuts candelabra wise proffer the passer by art which in many a district of new bedford has superinduced bright creation s final day . and the women of new bedford they bloom like their own red roses . but is perennial as sunlight in the seventh heavens . elsewhere match that girls breathe such musk their sailor sweethearts smell them miles off the puritanic sands . the moody fishermen shortly bound for the indian ocean or pacific who special errand . the sky had changed from clear sunny cold to driving bearskin i fought my way against the stubborn storm . entering i found widows . a muffled silence reigned only broken at times by the shrieks from the other as if each silent grief were insular and silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble pulpit . three of them ran something like the following but i do not lost overboard near the isle of desolation off patagonia november walter canny seth macy and samuel gleig forming one of the boats off shore ground in the pacific december st . this marble of his boat was killed by a sperm whale on the coast of japan august myself near the door and turning sideways was surprised to see wondering gaze of incredulous curiosity in his countenance . this savage he was the only one who could not read and therefore was not reading the seamen whose names appeared there were now among the congregation and so plainly did several women present wear the countenance if not before me were assembled those in whose unhealing hearts the sight of afresh . oh . ye whose dead lie buried beneath the green grass who standing desolation that broods in bosoms like these . what bitter blanks in those immovable inscriptions . what deadly voids and unbidden resurrections to the beings who have placelessly perished without a here . in what census of living creatures the dead of mankind are included tales though containing more secrets than the goodwin sands how it is so significant and infidel a word and yet do not thus entitle him if life insurance companies pay death forfeitures upon immortals in what antique adam who died sixty round centuries ago how it is that we dwelling in unspeakable bliss why all the living so strive to hush all a whole city . all these things are not without their meanings . but faith like a jackal feeds among the tombs and even from these nantucket voyage i regarded those marble tablets and by the murky had gone before me . yes ishmael the same fate may be thine . but chance for promotion it seems—aye a stove boat will make me an speechlessly quick chaotic bundling of a man into eternity . but what methinks that what they call my shadow here on earth is my true much like oysters observing the sun through the water and thinking of my better being . in fact take my body who will take it i say it is and stove body when they will for stave my soul jove himself cannot . robustness entered immediately as the storm pelted door flew back upon sufficiently attested that this fine old man was the chaplain . yes it was a very great favourite . he had been a sailor and a harpooneer in ministry . at the time i now write of father mapple was in the hardy into a second flowering youth for among all the fissures of his bloom—the spring verdure peeping forth even beneath february s snow . no behold father mapple without the utmost interest because there were adventurous maritime life he had led . when he entered i observed that his tarpaulin hat ran down with melting sleet and his great pilot the water it had absorbed . however hat and coat and overshoes were one when arrayed in a decent suit he quietly approached the pulpit . like most old fashioned pulpits it was a very lofty one and since a floor seriously contract the already small area of the chapel the finished the pulpit without a stairs substituting a perpendicular side of a whaling captain had provided the chapel with a handsome pair of headed and stained with a mahogany colour the whole contrivance taste . halting for an instant at the foot of the ladder and with both cast a look upwards and then with a truly sailor like but still ascending the main top of his vessel . the perpendicular parts of this side ladder as is usually the case wood so that at every step there was a joint . at my first glimpse of these joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary . for i was not round and stooping over the pulpit deliberately drag up the ladder impregnable in his little quebec . i pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this . sanctity that i could not suspect him of courting notoriety by any reason for this thing furthermore it must symbolize something unseen . his spiritual withdrawal for the time from all outward worldly ties word to the faithful man of god this pulpit i see is a well of water within the walls . but the side ladder was not the only strange feature of the place cenotaphs on either hand of the pulpit the wall which formed its back against a terrible storm off a lee coast of black rocks and snowy floated a little isle of sunlight from which beamed forth an angel s ship s tossed deck something like that silver plate now inserted into seemed to say “beat on beat on thou noble ship and bear a hardy off—serenest azure is at hand . ” nor was the pulpit itself without a trace of the same sea taste that likeness of a ship s bluff bows and the holy bible rested on a beak . what could be more full of meaning . —for the pulpit is ever this earth s world . from thence it is the storm of god s quick wrath is first the god of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for favourable winds . and the pulpit is its prow . the scattered people to condense . “starboard gangway there . side away still slighter shuffling of women s shoes and all was quiet again and large brown hands across his chest uplifted his closed eyes and at the bottom of the sea . this ended in prolonged solemn tones like the continual tolling of a commenced reading the following hymn but changing his manner towards “the ribs and terrors in the whale arched over me a dismal gloom to doom . “i saw the opening maw of hell with endless pains and sorrows there despair . “in black distress i called my god when i could scarce believe him confine . “with speed he flew to my relief as on a radiant dolphin borne give the glory to my god his all the mercy and the power . ” howling of the storm . a brief pause ensued the preacher slowly turned the proper page said “beloved shipmates clinch the last verse of the jonah . ” “shipmates this book containing only four chapters—four yarns—is one depths of the soul does jonah s deep sealine sound . what a pregnant the fish s belly . how billow like and boisterously grand . we feel the waters sea weed and all the slime of the sea is about us . but what two stranded lesson a lesson to us all as sinful men and a lesson to all because it is a story of the sin hard heartedness suddenly the deliverance and joy of jonah . as with all sinners among men the command of god—never mind now what that command was or how would have us do are hard for us to do—remember that—and hence he must disobey ourselves and it is in this disobeying ourselves wherein god by seeking to flee from him . he thinks that a ship made by men captains of this earth . he skulks about the wharves of joppa and seeks unheeded meaning here . by all accounts tarshish could have been no and where is cadiz shipmates . cadiz is in spain as far by water from the atlantic was an almost unknown sea . because joppa the modern the syrian and tarshish or cadiz more than two thousand miles to the then shipmates that jonah sought to flee world wide from god . slouched hat and guilty eye skulking from his god prowling among the disordered self condemning is his look that had there been policemen been arrested ere he touched a deck . how plainly he s a fugitive . no to the wharf with their adieux . at last after much dodging search he he steps on board to see its captain in the cabin all the sailors for evil eye . jonah sees this but in vain he tries to look all ease and man assure the mariners he can be no innocent . in their gamesome but widow ” or “joe do you mark him he s a bigamist ” or “harry lad i one of the missing murderers from sodom . ” another runs to read the bill moored offering five hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a looks from jonah to the bill while all his sympathetic shipmates now trembles and summoning all his boldness to his face only looks so itself is strong suspicion . so he makes the best of it and when the pass and he descends into the cabin . “‘who s there . cries the captain at his busy desk hurriedly making question mangles jonah . for the instant he almost turns to flee again . sail ye sir . thus far the busy captain had not looked up to jonah hollow voice than he darts a scrutinizing glance . ‘we sail with the him . ‘no sooner sir . —‘soon enough for any honest man that goes a the captain from that scent . ‘i ll sail with ye —he says —‘the passage shipmates as if it were a thing not to be overlooked in this history the context this is full of meaning . “now jonah s captain shipmates was one whose discernment detects this world shipmates sin that pays its way can travel freely and frontiers . so jonah s captain prepares to test the length of jonah s and it s assented to . then the captain knows that jonah is a fugitive gold . yet when jonah fairly takes out his purse prudent suspicions not a forger any way he mutters and jonah is put down for his travel weary i need sleep . ‘thou lookest like it says the captain contains no key . hearing him foolishly fumbling there the captain convicts cells being never allowed to be locked within . all dressed little state room ceiling almost resting on his forehead . the air is beneath the ship s water line jonah feels the heralding presentiment his bowels wards . “screwed at its axis against the side a swinging lamp slightly wharf with the weight of the last bales received the lamp flame and with reference to the room though in truth infallibly straight hung . the lamp alarms and frightens jonah as lying in his berth his fugitive finds no refuge for his restless glance . but that ceiling and the side are all awry . ‘oh . so my conscience hangs in soul are all in crookedness . “like one who after a night of drunken revelry hies to his bed still roman race horse but so much the more strike his steel tags into him anguish praying god for annihilation until the fit be passed and at over the man who bleeds to death for conscience is the wound and jonah s prodigy of ponderous misery drags him drowning down to sleep . “and now the time of tide has come the ship casts off her cables and glides to sea . that ship my friends was the first of recorded bear the wicked burden . a dreadful storm comes on the ship is like to boxes bales and jars are clattering overboard when the wind is trampling feet right over jonah s head in all this raging tumult feels not the reeling timbers and little hears he or heeds he the far the seas after him . aye shipmates jonah was gone down into the sides asleep . but the frightened master comes to him and shrieks in his dead by that direful cry jonah staggers to his feet and stumbling to the is sprung upon by a panther billow leaping over the bulwarks . wave roaring fore and aft till the mariners come nigh to drowning while yet steep gullies in the blackness overhead aghast jonah sees the rearing tormented deep . “terrors upon terrors run shouting through his soul . in all his sailors mark him more and more certain grow their suspicions of him high heaven they fall to casting lots to see for whose cause this how furiously they mob him with their questions . ‘what is thine my shipmates the behavior of poor jonah . the eager mariners but ask to those questions but likewise another answer to a question not put hand of god that is upon him . “‘i am a hebrew he cries—and then—‘i fear the lord the god of heaven mightest thou fear the lord god then . straightway he now goes on to appalled but still are pitiful . for when jonah not yet supplicating deserts —when wretched jonah cries out to them to take him and cast him was upon them they mercifully turn from him and seek by other means then with one hand raised invokingly to god with the other they not when instantly an oily calmness floats out from the east and the sea behind . he goes down in the whirling heart of such a masterless the yawning jaws awaiting him and the whale shoots to all his ivory unto the lord out of the fish s belly . but observe his prayer and wail for direct deliverance . he feels that his dreadful punishment is this that spite of all his pains and pangs he will still look towards not clamorous for pardon but grateful for punishment . and how pleasing of him from the sea and the whale . shipmates i do not place jonah model for repentance . sin not but if you do take heed to repent of it slanting storm without seemed to add new power to the preacher who his deep chest heaved as with a ground swell his tossed arms seemed off his swarthy brow and the light leaping from his eye made all his leaves of the book once more and at last standing motionless with with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest humility he spake these upon me . i have read ye by what murky light may be mine the lesson that me for i am a greater sinner than ye . and now how gladly would i come and listen as you listen while some one of you reads me that other living god . how being an anointed pilot prophet or speaker of true ears of a wicked nineveh jonah appalled at the hostility he should by taking ship at joppa . but god is everywhere tarshish he never him down to living gulfs of doom and with swift slantings tore him ten thousand fathoms down and ‘the weeds were wrapped about his head the reach of any plummet—‘out of the belly of hell —when the whale engulphed repenting prophet when he cried . then god spake unto the came breeching up towards the warm and pleasant sun and all the when the word of the lord came a second time and jonah bruised and of the ocean—jonah did the almighty s bidding . and what was that the living god who slights it . woe to him whom this world charms from has brewed them into a gale . woe to him who seeks to please rather than to him who in this world courts not dishonor . woe to him who would who as the great pilot paul has it while preaching to others is face to them again showed a deep joy in his eyes as he cried out with every woe there is a sure delight and higher the top of that delight the kelson is low . delight is to him—a far far upward and inward stands forth his own inexorable self . delight is to him whose strong gone down beneath him . delight is to him who gives no quarter in the from under the robes of senators and judges . delight —top gallant god and is only a patriot to heaven . delight is to him whom all the from this sure keel of the ages . and eternal delight and deliciousness breath—o father . —chiefly known to me by thy rod—mortal or immortal or mine own . yet this is nothing i leave eternity to thee for what is his hands and so remained kneeling till all the people had departed chapter . a bosom friend . returning to the spouter inn from the chapel i found queequeg there time . he was sitting on a bench before the fire with his feet on the little negro idol of his peering hard into its face and with a himself in his heathenish way . but being now interrupted he put up the image and pretty soon going began counting the pages with deliberate regularity at every fiftieth giving utterance to a long drawn gurgling whistle of astonishment . he one each time as though he could not count more than fifty and it was astonishment at the multitude of pages was excited . with much interest i sat watching him . savage though he was and yet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable . you saw the traces of a simple honest heart and in his large deep eyes thousand devils . and besides all this there was a certain lofty altogether maim . he looked like a man who had never cringed and never his forehead was drawn out in freer and brighter relief and looked decide but certain it was his head was phrenologically an excellent head as seen in the popular busts of him . it had the same long likewise very projecting like two long promontories thickly wooded on looking out at the storm from the casement he never heeded my appeared wholly occupied with counting the pages of the marvellous previous and especially considering the affectionate arm i had found of his very strange . but savages are strange beings at times you do calm self collectedness of simplicity seems a socratic wisdom . i had with the other seamen in the inn . he made no advances whatever all this struck me as mighty singular yet upon second thoughts there miles from home by the way of cape horn that is—which was the only he were in the planet jupiter and yet he seemed entirely at his ease always equal to himself . surely this was a touch of fine philosophy perhaps to be true philosophers we mortals should not be conscious of gives himself out for a philosopher i conclude that like the mild stage when after its first intensity has warmed the air it then round the casements and peering in upon us silent solitary twain the strange feelings . i felt a melting in me . no more my splintered heart savage had redeemed it . there he sat his very indifference speaking a deceits . wild he was a very sight of sights to see yet i began to would have repelled most others they were the very magnets that thus has proved but hollow courtesy . i drew my bench near him and made some first he little noticed these advances but presently upon my whether we were again to be bedfellows . i told him yes whereat i him the purpose of the printing and the meaning of the few pictures went to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to producing his pouch and tomahawk he quietly offered me a puff . and regularly passing between us . if there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the pagan s left us cronies . he seemed to take to me quite as naturally and forehead against mine clasped me round the waist and said that were bosom friends he would gladly die for me if need should be . in a premature a thing to be much distrusted but in this simple savage together . he made me a present of his embalmed head took out his thirty dollars in silver then spreading them on the table and towards me and said it was mine . i was going to remonstrate but he he then went about his evening prayers took out his idol and removed anxious for me to join him but well knowing what was to follow i otherwise . i was a good christian born and bred in the bosom of the infallible worshipping his piece of wood . but what is worship . thought i . do you earth—pagans and all included—can possibly be jealous of an the will of god— that is worship . and what is the will of god . —to do the will of god . now queequeg is my fellow man . and what do i wish presbyterian form of worship . consequently i must then unite with him prop up the innocent little idol offered him burnt biscuit with done we undressed and went to bed at peace with our own consciences disclosures between friends . man and wife they say there open the lie and chat over old times till nearly morning . thus then in our chapter . nightgown . we had lain thus in bed chatting and napping at short intervals and over mine and then drawing them back so entirely sociable and free little nappishness remained in us altogether departed and we felt like began to grow wearisome and by little and little we found ourselves head board with our four knees drawn up close together and our two very nice and snug the more so since it was so chilly out of doors room . the more so i say because truly to enjoy bodily warmth some that is not what it is merely by contrast . nothing exists in itself . if so a long time then you cannot be said to be comfortable any more . but of your head be slightly chilled why then indeed in the general this reason a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a fire of this sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanket you lie like the one warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal . we had been sitting in this crouching manner for some time when all at by day or by night and whether asleep or awake i have a way of always being in bed . because no man can ever feel his own identity aright element of our essences though light be more congenial to our clayey self created darkness into the imposed and coarse outer gloom of the revulsion . nor did i at all object to the hint from queequeg that awake and besides he felt a strong desire to have a few quiet puffs repugnance to his smoking in the bed the night before yet see how for now i liked nothing better than to have queequeg smoking by me then . i no more felt unduly concerned for the landlord s policy of comfortableness of sharing a pipe and a blanket with a real friend . tomahawk from one to the other till slowly there grew over us a blue far distant scenes i know not but he now spoke of his native island gladly complied . though at the time i but ill comprehended not a few of with his broken phraseology now enable me to present the whole story chapter . biographical . queequeg was a native of rokovoko an island far away to the west and grass clout followed by the nibbling goats as if he were a green desire to see something more of christendom than a specimen whaler or on the maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives of stuff though sadly vitiated i fear by the cannibal propensity he passage to christian lands . but the ship having her full complement of could prevail . but queequeg vowed a vow . alone in his canoe he paddled she quitted the island . on one side was a coral reef on the other a the water . hiding his canoe still afloat among these thickets with when the ship was gliding by like a flash he darted out gained her climbed up the chains and throwing himself at full length upon the hacked in pieces . in vain the captain threatened to throw him overboard suspended a queequeg budged not . struck by his desperate dauntlessness and his told him he might make himself at home . but this fine young savage—this among the sailors and made a whaleman of him . but like czar peter no seeming ignominy if thereby he might happily gain the power of was actuated by a profound desire to learn among the christians the than that still better than they were . but alas . the practices of miserable and wicked infinitely more so than all his father s sailors did there and then going on to nantucket and seeing how they lost . thought he it s a wicked world in all meridians i ll die a wore their clothes and tried to talk their gibberish . hence the queer a coronation since he might now consider his father dead and gone he yet and added that he was fearful christianity or rather christians pagan kings before him . but by and by he said he would return —as proposed to sail about and sow his wild oats in all four oceans . they sceptre now . i asked him what might be his immediate purpose touching his future this i told him that whaling was my own design and informed him of my for an adventurous whaleman to embark from . he at once resolved to same watch the same boat the same mess with me in short to share my both worlds . to all this i joyously assented for besides the affection could not fail to be of great usefulness to one who like me was with the sea as known to merchant seamen . his story being ended with his pipe s last dying puff queequeg light we rolled over from each other this way and that and very soon chapter . wheelbarrow . next morning monday after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber comrade s money . the grinning landlord as well as the boarders seemed me and queequeg—especially as peter coffin s cock and bull stories whom i now companied with . we borrowed a wheelbarrow and embarking our things including my own down to “the moss ” the little nantucket packet schooner moored at the much—for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their heeded them not going along wheeling the barrow by turns and queequeg asked him why he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore and substance he replied that though what i hinted was true enough yet assured stuff well tried in many a mortal combat and deeply intimate mowers who go into the farmers meadows armed with their own for his own private reasons preferred his own harpoon . shifting the barrow from my hand to his he told me a funny story about owners of his ship it seems had lent him one in which to carry his thing—though in truth he was entirely so concerning the precise way in fast and then shoulders the barrow and marches up the wharf . “why ” think . didn t the people laugh . ” upon this he told me another story . the people of his island of of young cocoanuts into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl and mat where the feast is held . now a certain grand merchant ship once stately punctilious gentleman at least for a sea captain—this pretty young princess just turned of ten . well when all the wedding marches in and being assigned the post of honor placed himself over king queequeg s father . grace being said —for those people have their times look downwards to our platters they on the contrary copying say being said the high priest opens the banquet by the immemorial consecrating fingers into the bowl before the blessed beverage ceremony and thinking himself—being captain of a ship—as having plain house—the captain coolly proceeds to wash his hands in the queequeg “what you tink now . —didn t our people laugh . ” at last passage paid and luggage safe we stood on board the side new bedford rose in terraces of streets their ice covered trees casks on casks were piled upon her wharves and side by side the from others came a sound of carpenters and coopers with blended noises were on the start that one most perilous and long voyage ended only for ever and for aye . such is the endlessness yea the intolerableness moss tossed the quick foam from her bows as a young colt his earth . —that common highway all over dented with the marks of slavish which will permit no records . at the same foam fountain queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me . teeth . on on we flew and our offing gained the moss did homage to sideways leaning we sideways darted every ropeyarn tingling like a so full of this reeling scene were we as we stood by the plunging the passengers a lubber like assembly who marvelled that two fellow more dignified than a whitewashed negro . but there were some boobies from the heart and centre of all verdure . queequeg caught one of these hour of doom was come . dropping his harpoon the brawny savage caught sent him high up bodily into the air then slightly tapping his stern while queequeg turning his back upon him lighted his tomahawk pipe “capting capting here s the devil . ” “hallo you sir ” cried the captain a gaunt rib of the sea stalking you might have killed that chap . ” “what him say . ” said queequeg as he mildly turned to me . “he say ” said i “that you came near kill e that man there ” pointing expression of disdain “ah . him bevy small e fish e queequeg no kill e you try any more of your tricks aboard here so mind your eye . ” but it so happened just then that it was high time for the captain to the weather sheet and the tremendous boom was now flying from side to fellow whom queequeg had handled so roughly was swept overboard all seemed madness . it flew from right to left and back again almost in snapping into splinters . nothing was done and nothing seemed capable the boom as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale . in the crawling under the path of the boom whipped hold of a rope secured caught it round the boom as it swept over his head and at the next run into the wind and while the hands were clearing away the stern living arc of a leap . for three minutes or more he was seen swimming turns revealing his brawny shoulders through the freezing foam . i the greenhorn had gone down . shooting himself perpendicularly from the to see just how matters were dived down and disappeared . a few minutes dragging a lifeless form . the boat soon picked them up . the poor captain begged his pardon . from that hour i clove to queequeg like a at all deserved a medal from the humane and magnanimous societies . he done he put on dry clothes lighted his pipe and leaning against the himself—“it s a mutual joint stock world in all meridians . we chapter . nantucket . nothing more happened on the passage worthy the mentioning so after a the world it occupies how it stands there away off shore more lonely sand all beach without a background . there is more sand there than gamesome wights will tell you that they have to plant weeds there they to send beyond seas for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask that cross in rome that people there plant toadstools before their houses oasis three blades in a day s walk a prairie that they wear quicksand belted about every way inclosed surrounded and made an utter island sometimes be found adhering as to the backs of sea turtles . but these settled by the red men . thus goes the legend . in olden times an eagle indian in his talons . with loud lament the parents saw their child same direction . setting out in their canoes after a perilous passage casket —the poor little indian s skeleton . what wonder then that these nantucketers born on a beach should in the sand grown bolder they waded out with nets for mackerel more launching a navy of great ships on the sea explored this watery world behring s straits and in all seasons and all oceans declared flood most monstrous and most mountainous . that himmalehan salt sea his very panics are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and their ant hill in the sea overrun and conquered the watery world like and indian oceans as the three pirate powers did poland . let america overswarm all india and hang out their blazing banner from the sun is his he owns it as emperors own empires other seamen having but a armed ones but floating forts even pirates and privateers though other fragments of the land like themselves without seeking to draw resides and riots on the sea he alone in bible language goes down to there is his home there lies his business which a noah s flood he lives on the sea as prairie cocks in the prairie he hides among he knows not the land so that when he comes to it at last it smells with the landless gull that at sunset folds her wings and is rocked to of land furls his sails and lays him to his rest while under his chapter . chowder . it was quite late in the evening when the little moss came snugly to business that day at least none but a supper and a bed . the landlord try pots whom he asserted to be the proprietor of one of the best kept hosea as he called him was famous for his chowders . in short he at the try pots . but the directions he had given us about keeping a the larboard and then keeping that on the larboard hand till we made a man we met where the place was these crooked directions of his very insisted that the yellow warehouse—our first point of departure—must be it was on the starboard . however by dint of beating about a little in inquire the way we at last came to something which there was no swung from the cross trees of an old top mast planted in front of an side so that this old top mast looked not a little like a gallows . could not help staring at this gallows with a vague misgiving . a sort two of them one for queequeg and one for me . it s ominous thinks tombstones staring at me in the whalemen s chapel and here a gallows . oblique hints touching tophet . i was called from these reflections by the sight of a freckled woman under a dull red lamp swinging there that looked much like an injured shirt . “get along with ye ” said she to the man “or i ll be combing ye . ” “come on queequeg ” said i “all right . there s mrs . hussey . ” and so it turned out mr . hosea hussey being from home but leaving making known our desires for a supper and a bed mrs . hussey room and seating us at a table spread with the relics of a recently says i “but that s a rather cold and clammy reception in the winter shirt who was waiting for it in the entry and seeming to hear nothing to the kitchen and bawling out “clam for two ” disappeared . “queequeg ” said i “do you think that we can make out a supper for us apparently cheerless prospect before us . but when that smoking chowder hearken to me . it was made of small juicy clams scarcely bigger than into little flakes the whole enriched with butter and plentifully frosty voyage and in particular queequeg seeing his favourite fishing despatched it with great expedition when leaning back a moment and would try a little experiment . stepping to the kitchen door i uttered moments the savoury steam came forth again but with a different to myself i wonder now if this here has any effect on the head . what s queequeg ain t that a live eel in your bowl . where s your harpoon . ” fishiest of all fishy places was the try pots which well deserved its breakfast and chowder for dinner and chowder for supper till you before the house was paved with clam shells . mrs . hussey wore a books bound in superior old shark skin . there was a fishy flavor to the happening to take a stroll along the beach among some fishermen s marching along the sand with each foot in a cod s decapitated head concerning the nearest way to bed but as queequeg was about to his harpoon she allowed no harpoon in her chambers . “why not . ” said i it s dangerous ” says she . “ever since young stiggs coming from that only three barrels of ile was found dead in my first floor back take sich dangerous weepons in their rooms at night . so mr . queequeg” keep it for you till morning . but the chowder clam or cod to morrow variety . ” small concern queequeg now gave me to understand that he had been had told him two or three times over and strongly insisted upon it harbor and in concert selecting our craft instead of this i say wholly with me inasmuch as yojo purposed befriending us and in order i ishmael should infallibly light upon for all the world as though myself for the present irrespective of queequeg . i have forgotten to mention that in many things queequeg placed great of things and cherished yojo with considerable esteem as a rather all cases did not succeed in his benevolent designs . now this plan of queequeg s or rather yojo s touching the selection relied upon queequeg s sagacity to point out the whaler best fitted to produced no effect upon queequeg i was obliged to acquiesce and rushing sort of energy and vigor that should quickly settle that with yojo in our little bedroom—for it seemed that it was some sort of queequeg and yojo that day how it was i never could find out for liturgies and xxxix articles—leaving queequeg then fasting on his shavings i sallied out among the shipping . after much prolonged ships up for three years voyages—the devil dam the tit bit and the pequod you will no doubt remember was the name of a celebrated peered and pryed about the devil dam from her hopped over to the a moment and then decided that this was the very ship for us . you may have seen many a quaint craft in your day for aught i galliots and what not but take my word for it you never saw such a school rather small if anything with an old fashioned claw footed calms of all four oceans her old hull s complexion was darkened like a venerable bows looked bearded . her masts—cut somewhere on the coast of stood stiffly up like the spines of the three old kings of cologne . her flag stone in canterbury cathedral where becket bled . but to all these to the wild business that for more than half a century she had commanded another vessel of his own and now a retired seaman and one of his chief mateship had built upon her original grotesqueness and unmatched by anything except it be thorkill hake s carved buckler or neck heavy with pendants of polished ivory . she was a thing of bones of her enemies . all round her unpanelled open bulwarks were sperm whale inserted there for pins to fasten her old hempen thews but deftly travelled over sheaves of sea ivory . scorning a turnstile was in one mass curiously carved from the long narrow lower jaw of her felt like the tartar when he holds back his fiery steed by clutching are touched with that . now when i looked about the quarter deck for some one having first i saw nobody but i could not well overlook a strange sort of seemed only a temporary erection used in port . it was of a conical black bone taken from the middle and highest part of the jaws of the these slabs laced together mutually sloped towards each other and at to and fro like the top knot on some old pottowottamie sachem s head . a insider commanded a complete view forward . and half concealed in this queer tenement i at length found one who by ship s work suspended was now enjoying respite from the burden of over with curious carving and the bottom of which was formed of a constructed . there was nothing so very particular perhaps about the appearance of and heavily rolled up in blue pilot cloth cut in the quaker style wrinkles interlacing round his eyes which must have arisen from his windward —for this causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursed the tent . “supposing it be the captain of the pequod what dost thou want of stove boat . ” “no sir i never have . ” “dost know nothing at all about whaling i dare say—eh . “nothing sir but i have no doubt i shall soon learn . i ve been leg . —i ll take that leg away from thy stern if ever thou talkest of now ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant looks a little suspicious don t it eh . —hast not been a pirate hast murdering the officers when thou gettest to sea . ” i protested my innocence of these things . i saw that under the mask of quakerish nantucketer was full of his insular prejudices and rather vineyard . “but what takes thee a whaling . i want to know that before i think of young man . it belongs to me and captain bildad to see the pequod fitted are part owners and agents . but as i was going to say if thou wantest of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it past backing out . clap leg . ” “what do you mean sir . was the other one lost by a whale . ” “lost by a whale . young man come nearer to me it was devoured chewed boat . —ah ah . ” i was a little alarmed by his energy perhaps also a little touched at could “what you say is no doubt true enough sir but how could i know i might have inferred as much from the simple fact of the accident . ” “look ye now young man thy lungs are a sort of soft d ye see thou of that . ” “sir ” said i “i thought i told you that i had been four voyages in service—don t aggravate me—i won t have it . but let us understand each inclined for it . ” “i do sir . ” “very good . now art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live be got rid of that is which i don t take to be the fact . ” “good again . now then thou not only wantest to go a whaling to find see the world . was not that what ye said . i thought so . well then just to me and tell me what ye see there . ” for a moment i stood a little puzzled by this curious request not concentrating all his crow s feet into one scowl captain peleg started ship swinging to her anchor with the flood tide was now obliquely exceedingly monotonous and forbidding not the slightest variety that i see . ” “not much ” i replied—“nothing but water considerable horizon though round cape horn to see any more of it eh . can t ye see the world where pequod was as good a ship as any—i thought the best—and all this i now willingness to ship me . “and thou mayest as well sign the papers right off ” he added—“come cabin . seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and captain peleg was one of the largest owners of the vessel the other of old annuitants widows fatherless children and chancery wards nail or two in the ship . people in nantucket invest their money in stocks bringing in good interest . now bildad like peleg and indeed many other nantucketers was a this day its inhabitants in general retain in an uncommon measure the things altogether alien and heterogeneous . for some of these same are fighting quakers they are quakers with a vengeance . so that there are instances among them of men who named with childhood naturally imbibing the stately dramatic thee and thou of the adventure of their subsequent lives strangely blend with these unworthy a scandinavian sea king or a poetical pagan roman . and when globular brain and a ponderous heart who has also by the stillness and beneath constellations never seen here at the north been led to think savage impressions fresh from her own virgin voluntary and confiding advantages to learn a bold and nervous lofty language—that man makes noble tragedies . nor will it at all detract from him dramatically a half wilful overruling morbidness at the bottom of his nature . for sure of this o young ambition all mortal greatness is but disease . and still a man who if indeed peculiar it only results again from but unlike captain peleg—who cared not a rush for what are called veriest of all trifles—captain bildad had not only been originally all his subsequent ocean life and the sight of many unclad lovely born quaker one single jot had not so much as altered one angle of his consistency about worthy captain bildad . though refusing from had illimitably invaded the atlantic and pacific and though a sworn tuns upon tuns of leviathan gore . how now in the contemplative evening reminiscence i do not know but it did not seem to concern him much conclusion that a man s religion is one thing and this practical world cabin boy in short clothes of the drabbest drab to a harpooneer in a chief mate and captain and finally a ship owner bildad as i hinted active life at the goodly age of sixty and dedicating his remaining incorrigible old hunks and in his sea going days a bitter hard curious story that when he sailed the old categut whaleman his crew sore exhausted and worn out . for a pious man especially for a quaker to swear though at his men they said but somehow he got an bildad was a chief mate to have his drab coloured eye intently looking something—a hammer or a marling spike and go to work like mad at before him . his own person was the exact embodiment of his utilitarian superfluous beard his chin having a soft economical nap to it like followed captain peleg down into the cabin . the space between the decks and never leaned and this to save his coat tails . his broad brim was buttoned up to his chin and spectacles on nose he seemed absorbed in studying those scriptures now for the last thirty years to my bildad without noticing his present irreverence quietly looked up his book in a mumbling tone quite audible . i thought him the queerest old quaker i ever saw especially as peleg nothing only looking round me sharply . peleg now threw open a chest and seated himself at a little table . i began to think it was high time the voyage . i was already aware that in the whaling business they paid of the profits called lays and that these lays were proportioned to ship s company . i was also aware that being a green hand at whaling my sea could steer a ship splice a rope and all that i made no doubt lay—that is the th part of the clear net proceeds of the voyage what they call a rather long lay yet it was better than nothing and would wear out on it not to speak of my three years beef and board fortune—and so it was a very poor way indeed . but i am one of those world is ready to board and lodge me while i am putting up at this th lay would be about the fair thing but would not have been broad shouldered make . but one thing nevertheless that made me a little distrustful about something of both captain peleg and his unaccountable old crony bildad the other and more inconsiderable and scattered owners left nearly the but what the stingy old bildad might have a mighty deal to say about quite at home there in the cabin and reading his bible as if at his jack knife old bildad to my no small surprise considering that he us but went on mumbling to himself out of his book “ lay not up for shall we give this young man . ” “thou knowest best ” was the sepulchral reply “the seven hundred and corrupt but lay — ” lay indeed thought i and such a lay . the seven hundred and shall not lay up many lays here below where moth and rust do the magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman yet seventy seven is a pretty large number yet when you come to make a seventy seventh part of a farthing is a good deal less than seven swindle this young man . he must have more than that . ” “seven hundred and seventy seventh ” again said bildad without lifting will your heart be also . ” “i am going to put him down for the three hundredth ” said peleg “do “captain peleg thou hast a generous heart but thou must consider the many of them—and that if we too abundantly reward the labors of this orphans . the seven hundred and seventy seventh lay captain peleg . ” “thou bildad . ” roared peleg starting up and clattering about the matters i would afore now had a conscience to lug about that would be horn . ” “captain peleg ” said bildad steadily “thy conscience may be drawing still an impenitent man captain peleg i greatly fear lest thy down to the fiery pit captain peleg . ” “fiery pit . fiery pit . ye insult me man past all natural bearing ye he s bound to hell . flukes and flames . bildad say that again to me with all his hair and horns on . out of the cabin ye canting marvellous oblique sliding celerity bildad for that time eluded him . alarmed at this terrible outburst between the two principal and idea of sailing in a vessel so questionably owned and temporarily i made no doubt was all eagerness to vanish from before the awakened transom very quietly and seemed to have not the slightest intention of for peleg after letting off his rage as he had there seemed no more little as if still nervously agitated . “whew . ” he whistled at last—“the sharpening a lance mend that pen will ye . my jack knife here needs ishmael s thy name didn t ye say . well then down ye go here ishmael too—shall i bring him down to morrow . ” “to be sure ” said peleg . “fetch him along and we ll look at him . ” “what lay does he want . ” groaned bildad glancing up from the book in whaled it any . ” turning to me . “killed more whales than i can count captain peleg . ” “well bring him along then . ” and after signing the papers off i went nothing doubting but that i ship that yojo had provided to carry queequeg and me round the cape . but i had not proceeded far when i began to bethink me that the indeed in many cases a whale ship will be completely fitted out and arriving to take command for sometimes these voyages are so prolonged captain have a family or any absorbing concernment of that sort he the owners till all is ready for sea . however it is always as well to hands . turning back i accosted captain peleg inquiring where captain art shipped . ” “yes but i should like to see him . ” “but i don t think thou wilt be able to at present . i don t know house a sort of sick and yet he don t look so . in fact he ain t see me so i don t suppose he will thee . he s a queer man captain fear no fear . he s a grand ungodly god like man captain ahab mark ye be forewarned ahab s above the common ahab s been in than the waves fixed his fiery lance in mightier stranger foes than isle . oh . he ain t captain bildad no and he ain t captain peleg they not lick his blood . ” “come hither to me—hither hither ” said peleg with a significance in the pequod . never say it anywhere . captain ahab did not name himself . when he was only a twelvemonth old . and yet the old squaw tistig at perhaps other fools like her may tell thee the same . i wish to warn mate years ago i know what he is—a good man—not a pious good man good deal more of him . aye aye i know that he was never very jolly for a spell but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale he s been a pass off . and once for all let me tell thee and assure thee young one . so good bye to thee—and wrong not captain ahab because he happens wedded—a sweet resigned girl . think of that by that sweet girl that in ahab . no no my lad stricken blasted if he be ahab has his incidentally revealed to me of captain ahab filled me with a certain i felt a sympathy and a sorrow for him but for i don t know what awe of him but that sort of awe which i cannot at all describe was not disincline me towards him though i felt impatience at what seemed however my thoughts were at length carried in other directions so chapter . the ramadan . as queequeg s ramadan or fasting and humiliation was to continue all cherish the greatest respect towards everybody s religious obligations even a congregation of ants worshipping a toad stool or those other footmanism quite unprecedented in other planets bow down before the inordinate possessions yet owned and rented in his name . i say we good presbyterian christians should be charitable in these pagans and what not because of their half crazy conceits on these absurd notions about yojo and his ramadan —but what of that . queequeg and there let him rest . all our arguing with him would not avail let alike—for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head and rituals must be over i went up to his room and knocked at the door “queequeg ” said i softly through the key hole —all silent . “i say as before . i began to grow alarmed . i had allowed him such abundant the key hole but the door opening into an odd corner of the room the part of the foot board of the bed and a line of the wall but nothing shaft of queequeg s harpoon which the landlady the evening previous thought i but at any rate since the harpoon stands yonder and he here and no possible mistake . “queequeg . —queequeg . ”—all still . something must have happened . running down stairs i quickly stated my suspicions to the first person be the matter . i went to make the bed after breakfast and the door was since . but i thought may be you had both gone off and locked your hussey . apoplexy . ”—and with these cries she ran towards the kitchen i vinegar cruet in the other having just broken away from the occupation meantime . “wood house . ” cried i “which way to it . run for god s sake and fetch depend upon it . ”—and so saying i was unmethodically rushing up stairs vinegar cruet and the entire castor of her countenance . “what s the matter with you young man . ” “get the axe . for god s sake run for the doctor some one while i pry so as to have one hand free “look here are you talking about prying matter with you . what s the matter with you shipmate . ” in as calm but rapid a manner as possible i gave her to understand her nose she ruminated for an instant then exclaimed—“no . i haven t landing of the stairs she glanced in and returning told me that unfort nate stiggs done over again—there goes another counterpane—god a sister . where s that girl . —there betty go to snarles the painter no smoking in the parlor ”—might as well kill both birds at once . kill . man avast there . ” and running up after me she caught me as i was again trying to force locksmith there s one about a mile from here . but avast . ” putting her see . ” and with that she turned it in the lock but alas . queequeg s little for a good start when the landlady caught at me again vowing sudden bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark . with a prodigious noise the door flew open and the knob slamming heavens . there sat queequeg altogether cool and self collected right top of his head . he looked neither one way nor the other way but sat you . ” “he hain t been a sittin so all day has he . ” said the landlady . but all we said not a word could we drag out of him i almost felt intolerable it seemed so painfully and unnaturally constrained eight or ten hours going too without his regular meals . “mrs . hussey ” said i “he s alive at all events so leave us if you queequeg to take a chair but in vain . there he sat and all he could nor say a single word nor even look at me nor notice my presence in they fast on their hams that way in his native island . it must be so get up sooner or later no doubt . it can t last for ever thank god punctual then . i went down to supper . after sitting a long time listening to the long as they called it that is a short whaling voyage in a schooner or after listening to these plum puddingers till nearly eleven o clock i must certainly have brought his ramadan to a termination . but no there to grow vexed with him it seemed so downright senseless and insane to holding a piece of wood on his head . “for heaven s sake queequeg get up and shake yourself get up and not a word did he reply . despairing of him therefore i determined to go to bed and to sleep turning in i took my heavy bearskin jacket and threw it over him as ordinary round jacket on . for some time do all i would i could not thought of queequeg—not four feet off—sitting there in that uneasy wretched . think of it sleeping all night in the same room with a wide day when looking over the bedside there squatted queequeg as if he sun entered the window up he got with stiff and grating joints but forehead again against mine and said his ramadan was over . now as i before hinted i have no objection to any person s religion other person because that other person don t believe it also . but when to him and in fine makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to argue the point with him . and just so i now did with queequeg . “queequeg ” said i “get into bed and progress of the primitive religions and coming down to the various queequeg that all these lents ramadans and prolonged ham squattings useless for the soul opposed in short to the obvious laws of hygiene an extremely sensible and sagacious savage it pained me very badly ramadan of his . besides argued i fasting makes the body cave in necessarily be half starved . this is the reason why most dyspeptic one word queequeg said i rather digressively hell is an idea first through the hereditary dyspepsias nurtured by ramadans . i then asked queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with in . he said no only upon one memorable occasion . it was after a great wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o clock in the inferences without his further hinting them . i had seen a sailor who when a great battle had been gained there to barbecue all the slain in placed in great wooden trenchers and garnished round like a pilau were sent round with the victor s compliments to all his friends just impression upon queequeg . because in the first place he somehow from his own point of view and in the second place he did not more finally he no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true concern and compassion as though he thought it a great pity that such piety . at last we rose and dressed and queequeg taking a prodigiously hearty make much profit by reason of his ramadan we sallied out to board the chapter . his mark . as we were walking down the end of the wharf towards the ship queequeg from his wigwam saying he had not suspected my friend was a cannibal craft unless they previously produced their papers . “what do you mean by that captain peleg . ” said i now jumping on the behind peleg s out of the wigwam . “he must show that he s converted . in communion with any christian church . ” “why ” said i “he s a member of the first congregational church . ” here last come to be converted into the churches . “first congregational church ” cried bildad “what . that worships in his spectacles he rubbed them with his great yellow bandana wigwam and leaning stiffly over the bulwarks took a good long look at very long i rather guess young man . ” “no ” said peleg “and he hasn t been baptized right either or it deacon deuteronomy s meeting . i never saw him going there and i pass i “all i know is that queequeg here is a born member of the first thyself thou young hittite . what church dost thee mean . answer me . ” finding myself thus hard pushed i replied . “i mean sir the same and queequeg here and all of us and every mother s son and soul of us worshipping world we all belong to that only some of us cherish some join hands . ” “splice thou mean st splice hands ” cried peleg drawing nearer . hand i never heard a better sermon . deacon deuteronomy—why father aboard come aboard never mind about the papers . i say tell quohog anchor what a harpoon he s got there . looks like good stuff that and you ever stand in the head of a whale boat . did you ever strike a the bulwarks from thence into the bows of one of the whale boats harpoon cried out in some such way as this — “cap ain you see him small drop tar on water dere . you see him . well darted the iron right over old bildad s broad brim clean across the eye why dad whale dead . ” “quick bildad ” said peleg his partner who aghast at the close gangway . “quick i say you bildad and get the ship s papers . we must quohog we ll give ye the ninetieth lay and that s more than ever was enrolled among the same ship s company to which i myself belonged . when all preliminaries were over and peleg had got everything ready for how to write does he . i say quohog blast ye . dost thou sign thy name part in similar ceremonies looked no ways abashed but taking the counterpart of a queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm so appellative it stood something like this — quohog . his x mark . meanwhile captain bildad sat earnestly and steadfastly eyeing queequeg broad skirted drab coat took out a bundle of tracts and selecting one queequeg s hands and then grasping them and the book with both his my duty by thee i am part owner of this ship and feel concerned for which i sadly fear i beseech thee remain not for aye a belial wrath to come mind thine eye i say oh . goodness gracious . steer heterogeneously mixed with scriptural and domestic phrases . “avast there avast there bildad avast now spoiling our harpooneer ” shark out of em no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint pretty of all nantucket and the vineyard he joined the meeting and never shrinked and sheered away from whales for fear of after claps in case as i myself hast seen many a perilous time thou knowest peleg what ungodly guise . thou beliest thine own heart peleg . tell me when this japan that same voyage when thou went mate with captain ahab did st thrusting his hands far down into his pockets —“hear him all of ye . and the judgment then . what . with all three masts making such an us fore and aft . think of death and the judgment then . no . no time to of and how to save all hands—how to rig jury masts—how to get into the we followed him . there he stood very quietly overlooking some stooped to pick up a patch or save an end of tarred twine which chapter . the prophet . “shipmates have ye shipped in that ship . ” queequeg and i had just left the pequod and were sauntering away from above words were put to us by a stranger who pausing before us shabbily apparelled in faded jacket and patched trowsers a rag of a directions flowed over his face and left it like the complicated more time for an uninterrupted look at him . “aye the pequod—that ship there ” he said drawing back his whole arm bayonet of his pointed finger darted full at the object . “yes ” said i “we have just signed the articles . ” “anything down there about your souls . ” “about what . ” “oh perhaps you hav n t got any ” he said quickly . “no matter though all the better off for it . a soul s a sort of a fifth wheel to a sort in other chaps ” abruptly said the stranger placing a nervous somewhere he s talking about something and somebody we don t know . ” “stop . ” cried the stranger . “ye said true—ye hav n t seen old thunder of his manner . “captain ahab . ” “what . the captain of our ship the pequod . ” “aye among some of us old sailor chaps he goes by that name . ye all right again before long . ” “all right again before long . ” laughed the stranger with a solemnly this left arm of mine will be all right not before . ” “what do you know about him . ” “what did they tell you about him . say that . ” “they didn t tell much of anything about him only i ve heard that he s he gives an order . step and growl growl and go—that s the word with cape horn long ago when he lay like dead for three days and nights in santa . —heard nothing about that eh . nothing about the silver voyage according to the prophecy . didn t ye hear a word about them who knows it . not all nantucket i guess . but hows ever mayhap ye ve that i dare say . oh yes that every one knows a most—i mean they don t know and i don t much care for it seems to me that you must be of that ship there the pequod then let me tell you that i know all stranger stood a moment as if in a troubled reverie then starting a papers . well well what s signed is signed and what s to be will fixed and arranged a ready and some sailors or other must go with him shipmates morning the ineffable heavens bless ye i m sorry i stopped us out with it but if you are only trying to bamboozle us you are you are just the man for him—the likes of ye . morning to ye shipmates of em . ” “ah my dear fellow you can t fool us that way—you can t fool us . it great secret in him . ” “morning to ye shipmates morning . ” “morning it is ” said i . “come along queequeg let s leave this crazy other s fashion upon this ragged old sailor and agreed that he was perhaps above a hundred yards when chancing to turn a corner and though at a distance . somehow the sight of him struck me so that i comrade anxious to see whether the stranger would turn the same corner but with what intent i could not for the life of me imagine . this shrouded sort of talk now begat in me all kinds of vague wonderments ahab and the leg he had lost and the cape horn fit and the silver the day previous and the prediction of the squaw tistig and the things . i was resolved to satisfy myself whether this ragged elijah was really and on that side of it retraced our steps . but elijah passed on finally as it seemed to me i pronounced him in my heart a humbug . not only were the old sails being mended but new sails were coming on betokened that the ship s preparations were hurrying to a close . keeping a sharp look out upon the hands bildad did all the purchasing the rigging were working till long after night fall . on the day following queequeg s signing the articles word was given at must be on board before night for there was no telling how soon the resolving however to sleep ashore till the last . but it seems they for several days . but no wonder there was a good deal to be done and was fully equipped . every one knows what a multitude of things—beds sauce pans knives and indispensable to the business of housekeeping . just so with whaling from all grocers costermongers doctors bakers and bankers . and to the same extent as with whalemen . for besides the great length of of the fishery and the impossibility of replacing them at the remote whaling vessels are the most exposed to accidents of all kinds and the success of the voyage most depends . hence the spare boats spare a spare captain and duplicate ship . at the period of our arrival at the island the heaviest storage of the fuel and iron hoops and staves . but as before hinted for some time ends of things both large and small . chief among those who did this fetching and carrying was captain spirit but withal very kindhearted who seemed resolved that if she once fairly getting to sea . at one time she would come on board with a quills for the chief mate s desk where he kept his log a third time never did any woman better deserve her name which was charity—aunt charitable aunt charity bustle about hither and thither ready to turn and consolation to all on board a ship in which her beloved brother well saved dollars . but it was startling to see this excellent hearted quakeress coming on a still longer whaling lance in the other . nor was bildad himself nor a long list of the articles needed and at every fresh arrival down while peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den roaring at the men then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam . during these days of preparation queequeg and i often visited the when he was going to come on board his ship . to these questions they aboard every day meantime the two captains peleg and bildad could had been downright honest with myself i would have seen very plainly long a voyage without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the sea . but when a man suspects any wrong it sometimes happens that if he his suspicions even from himself . and much this way it was with me . i certainly sail . so next morning queequeg and i took a very early chapter . going aboard . it was nearly six o clock but only grey imperfect misty dawn when we queequeg “it can t be shadows she s off by sunrise i guess come behind us laid a hand upon both our shoulders and then insinuating twilight strangely peering from queequeg to me . it was elijah . “going aboard . ” “hands off will you ” said i . “lookee here ” said queequeg shaking himself “go way . ” “ain t going aboard then . ” “yes we are ” said i “but what business is that of yours . do you wonderingly looking from me to queequeg with the most unaccountable are going to the indian and pacific oceans and would prefer not to be paces . “never mind him ” said i “queequeg come on . ” but he stole up to us again and suddenly clapping his hand on my ship a while ago . ” struck by this plain matter of fact question i answered saying “yes touching my shoulder again said “see if you can find em now will was going to warn ye against—but never mind never mind—it s all one ye . shan t see ye again very soon i guess unless it s before the me for the moment in no small wonderment at his frantic impudence . at last stepping on board the pequod we found everything in profound hatches were all on and lumbered with coils of rigging . going forward light we went down and found only an old rigger there wrapped in a face downwards and inclosed in his folded arms . the profoundest slumber looking dubiously at the sleeper . but it seemed that when on the would have thought myself to have been optically deceived in that beat the thing down and again marking the sleeper jocularly hinted to establish himself accordingly . he put his hand upon the sleeper s rear sat quietly down there . “gracious . queequeg don t sit there ” said i . “oh . perry dood seat ” said queequeg “my country way won t hurt him but how hard he breathes he s heaving himself get off queequeg you he ll twitch you off soon . i wonder he don t wake . ” queequeg removed himself to just beyond the head of the sleeper and over the sleeper from one to the other . meanwhile upon questioning land owing to the absence of settees and sofas of all sorts the king some of the lower orders for ottomans and to furnish a house fellows and lay them round in the piers and alcoves . besides it was which are convertible into walking sticks upon occasion a chief under a spreading tree perhaps in some damp marshy place . while narrating these things every time queequeg received the tomahawk which it seemed had in its two uses both brained his foes and soothed strong vapor now completely filling the contracted hole it began to troubled in the nose then revolved over once or twice then sat up and came aboard last night . ” “what captain . —ahab . ” “who but him indeed . ” i was going to ask him some further questions concerning ahab when we that good man and a pious but all alive now i must turn to . ” and so threes the riggers bestirred themselves the mates were actively last things on board . meanwhile captain ahab remained invisibly chapter . merry christmas . at length towards noon upon the final dismissal of the ship s after the ever thoughtful charity had come off in a whale boat with brother in law and a spare bible for the steward—after all this the the chief mate peleg said “now mr . starbuck are you sure everything is right . captain ahab is well call all hands then . muster em aft here—blast em . ” “no need of profane words however great the hurry peleg ” said peleg and captain bildad were going it with a high hand on the well as to all appearances in port . and as for captain ahab no sign then the idea was that his presence was by no means necessary in as that was not at all his proper business but the pilot s and as he stayed below . and all this seemed natural enough especially as in the considerable time after heaving up the anchor but remain over the before they quit the ship for good with the pilot . but there was not much chance to think over the matter for captain commanding and not bildad . “aft here ye sons of bachelors ” he cried as the sailors lingered at whalebone marquee was never pitched except in port and on board the to be the next thing to heaving up the anchor . “man the capstan . blood and thunder . —jump . ”—was the next command and is the forward part of the ship . and here bildad who with peleg be pilots of the port—he being suspected to have got himself made a pilot concerned in for he never piloted any other craft—bildad i say might approaching anchor and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave sort of a chorus about the girls in booble alley with hearty good no profane songs would be allowed on board the pequod particularly in copy of watts in each seaman s berth . meantime overseeing the other part of the ship captain peleg ripped would sink the ship before the anchor could be got up involuntarily i the perils we both ran in starting on the voyage with such a devil for pious bildad might be found some salvation spite of his seven hundred and turning round was horrified at the apparition of captain peleg in first kick . “is that the way they heave in the marchant service . ” he roared . spring i say all of ye—spring . quohog . spring thou chap with the red say all of ye and spring your eyes out . ” and so saying he moved imperturbable bildad kept leading off with his psalmody . thinks i was a short cold christmas and as the short northern day merged into freezing spray cased us in ice as in polished armor . the long rows of ivory tusks of some huge elephant vast curving icicles depended from the old craft deep dived into the green seas and sent the shivering steady notes were heard — green . so to the jews old canaan stood while jordan rolled between . ” never did those sweet words sound more sweetly to me than then . they the boisterous atlantic spite of my wet feet and wetter jacket there meads and glades so eternally vernal that the grass shot up by the longer . the stout sail boat that had accompanied us began ranging at this juncture especially captain bildad . for loath to depart yet voyage—beyond both stormy capes a ship in which some thousands of his sailed as captain a man almost as old as he once more starting to a thing so every way brimful of every interest to him —poor old bildad cabin to speak another farewell word there again came on deck and bounded by the far off unseen eastern continents looked towards the nowhere and at last mechanically coiling a rope upon its pin for a moment stood gazing heroically in his face as much as to say his philosophy there was a tear twinkling in his eye when the lantern a word below and now a word with starbuck the chief mate . but at last he turned to his comrade with a final sort of look about there . boat ahoy . stand by to come close alongside now . careful ye mr . stubb—luck to ye mr . flask—good bye and good luck to ye old nantucket . hurrah and away . ” “god bless ye and have ye in his holy keeping men ” murmured old that captain ahab may soon be moving among ye—a pleasant sun is all he careful in the hunt ye mates . don t stave the boats needlessly ye within the year . don t forget your prayers either . mr . starbuck mind the green locker . don t whale it too much a lord s days men but have an eye to the molasses tierce mr . stubb it was a little leaky i good bye good bye . don t keep that cheese too long down in the hold pound it was and mind ye if—” “come come captain bildad stop palavering —away . ” and with that screaming gull flew overhead the two hulls wildly rolled we gave atlantic . mariner encountered in new bedford at the inn . when on that shivering winter s night the pequod thrust her vindictive helm but bulkington . i looked with sympathetic awe and fearfulness upon voyage could so unrestingly push off again for still another things are ever the unmentionable deep memories yield no epitaphs say that it fared with him as with the storm tossed ship that succor the port is pitiful in the port is safety comfort mortalities . but in that gale the port the land is that ship s though it but graze the keel would make her shudder through and fights gainst the very winds that fain would blow her homeward seeks rushing into peril her only friend her bitterest foe . know ye now bulkington . glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally effort of the soul to keep the open independence of her sea while the treacherous slavish shore . but as in landlessness alone resides highest truth shoreless than be ingloriously dashed upon the lee even if that were safety . for terrible . is all this agony so vain . take heart take heart o ocean perishing—straight up leaps thy apotheosis . and as this business of whaling has somehow come to be regarded among am all anxiety to convince ye ye landsmen of the injustice hereby the fact that among people at large the business of whaling is not stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous metropolitan society he presented to the company as a harpooneer say and if in emulation fishery to his visiting card such a procedure would be deemed whalemen is this they think that at best our vocation amounts to a are surrounded by all manner of defilements . butchers we are that is all martial commanders whom the world invariably delights to honor . and shall soon be initiated into certain facts hitherto pretty generally whale ship at least among the cleanliest things of this tidy earth . but slippery decks of a whale ship are comparable to the unspeakable drink in all ladies plaudits . and if the idea of peril so much ye that many a veteran who has freely marched up to a battery would fanning into eddies the air over his head . for what are the wonders of god . but though the world scouts at us whale hunters yet does it adoration . for almost all the tapers lamps and candles that burn scales see what we whalemen are and have been . why did the dutch in de witt s time have admirals of their whaling out whaling ships from dunkirk and politely invite to that town some britain between the years and pay to her whalemen in bounties america now outnumber all the rest of the banded whalemen in the world thousand men yearly consuming of dollars the ships worth harbors a well reaped harvest of . how comes all this if point out one single peaceful influence which within the last sixty in one aggregate than the high and mighty business of whaling . one way continuously momentous in their sequential issues that whaling may pregnant from her womb . it would be a hopeless endless task to the whale ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest and which had no chart where no cook or vancouver had ever sailed . if harbors let them fire salutes to the honor and glory of the between them and the savages . they may celebrate as they will the say that scores of anonymous captains have sailed out of nantucket for in their succourless empty handedness they in the heathenish battled with virgin wonders and terrors that cook with all his marines flourish of in the old south sea voyages those things were but the which vancouver dedicates three chapters to these men accounted the world . until the whale fishery rounded cape horn no commerce but colonial and the long line of the opulent spanish provinces on the pacific of the spanish crown touching those colonies and if space permitted the liberation of peru chili and bolivia from the yoke of old spain given to the enlightened world by the whaleman . after its first those shores as pestiferously barbarous but the whale ship touched moreover in the infancy of the first australian settlement the biscuit of the whale ship luckily dropping an anchor in their waters . commercial homage to the whale ship that cleared the way for the missionaries to their first destinations . if that double bolted land the credit will be due for already she is on the threshold . but if in the face of all this you still declare that whaling has no shiver fifty lances with you there and unhorse you with a split helmet will say . the whale no famous author and whaling no famous chronicler . who composed the first narrative of a whaling voyage . who but no less a the words from other the norwegian whale hunter of those times . and good blood in their veins . no good blood in their veins . they have something better than royal afterwards by marriage mary folger one of the old settlers of harpooneers—all kith and kin to noble benjamin—this day darting the respectable . whaling not respectable . whaling is imperial . by old english grand imposing way . the whale never figured in any grand imposing way . in one of the capital the bones of a whale brought all the way from the syrian dignity in whaling . no dignity in whaling . the dignity of our calling the very heavens hat in presence of the czar and take it off to queequeg . no more . i whales . i account that man more honorable than that great captain of undiscovered prime thing in me if i shall ever deserve any real repute ambitious of if hereafter i shall do anything that upon the whole a my executors or more properly my creditors find any precious mss . in to whaling for a whale ship was my yale college and my harvard . substantiated facts . but after embattling his facts an advocate who eloquently upon his cause—such an advocate would he not be modern ones a certain curious process of seasoning them for their and there may be a castor of state . how they use the salt solemnly oiled at his coronation even as a head of salad . can it be well as they anoint machinery . much might be ruminated here common life we esteem but meanly and contemptibly a fellow who anoints who uses hair oil unless medicinally that man has probably got a much in his totality . but the only thing to be considered here is this—what kind of oil is oil nor castor oil nor bear s oil nor train oil nor cod liver oil . unpolluted state the sweetest of all oils . think of that ye loyal britons . we whalemen supply your kings and chapter . knights and squires . the chief mate of the pequod was starbuck a native of nantucket and a icy coast seemed well adapted to endure hot latitudes his flesh being would not spoil like bottled ale . he must have been born in some time his state is famous . only some thirty arid summers had he seen those thinness so to speak seemed no more the token of wasting anxieties merely the condensation of the man . he was by no means ill looking closely wrapped up in it and embalmed with inner health and strength long ages to come and to endure always as now for be it polar snow warranted to do well in all climates . looking into his eyes you seemed had calmly confronted through life . a staid steadfast man whose life chapter of sounds . yet for all his hardy sobriety and fortitude there cases seemed well nigh to overbalance all the rest . uncommonly the wild watery loneliness of his life did therefore strongly incline organizations seems rather to spring somehow from intelligence than if at times these things bent the welded iron of his soul much more tend to bend him still more from the original ruggedness of his nature honest hearted men restrain the gush of dare devil daring so often will have no man in my boat ” said starbuck “who is not afraid of a useful courage was that which arises from the fair estimation of the dangerous comrade than a coward . “aye aye ” said stubb the second mate “starbuck there is as ere long see what that word “careful” precisely means when used by a sentiment but a thing simply useful to him and always at hand upon this business of whaling courage was one of the great staple outfits wasted . wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for whales after in fighting him . for thought starbuck i am here in this critical theirs and that hundreds of men had been so killed starbuck well knew . he find the torn limbs of his brother . with memories like these in him and moreover given to a certain could nevertheless still flourish must indeed have been extreme . but terrible experiences and remembrances as he had it was not in nature him which under suitable circumstances would break out from its was that sort of bravery chiefly visible in some intrepid men which whales or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world yet which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged abasement of poor starbuck s fortitude scarce might i have the heart the fall of valour in the soul . men may seem detestable as joint men may have mean and meagre faces but man in the ideal is so noble ignominious blemish in him all his fellows should run to throw their far within us that it remains intact though all the outer character valor ruined man . nor can piety itself at such a shameful sight this august dignity i treat of is not the dignity of kings and robes see it shining in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike that himself . the great god absolute . the centre and circumference of all hereafter ascribe high qualities though dark weave round them tragic them all shall at times lift himself to the exalted mounts if i shall rainbow over his disastrous set of sun then against all mortal critics royal mantle of humanity over all my kind . bear me out in it thou bunyan the pale poetic pearl thou who didst clothe with doubly cervantes thou who didst pick up andrew jackson from the pebbles who throne . thou who in all thy mighty earthly marchings ever cullest god . according to local usage was called a cape cod man . a happy go lucky indifferent air and while engaged in the most imminent crisis of the for the year . good humored easy and careless he presided over his crew all invited guests . he was as particular about the comfortable the snugness of his box . when close to the whale in the very off handedly as a whistling tinker his hammer . he would hum over his monster . long usage had for this stubb converted the jaws of death telling . whether he ever thought of it at all might be a question comfortable dinner no doubt like a good sailor he took it to be a about something which he would find out when he obeyed the order and unfearing man so cheerily trudging off with the burden of life in a what helped to bring about that almost impious good humor of his that little pipe was one of the regular features of his face . you would nose as without his pipe . he kept a whole row of pipes there ready he turned in he smoked them all out in succession lighting one from readiness anew . for when stubb dressed instead of first putting his peculiar disposition for every one knows that this earthly air miseries of the numberless mortals who have died exhaling it and as in handkerchief to their mouths so likewise against all mortal disinfecting agent . the third mate was flask a native of tisbury in martha s vineyard . a who somehow seemed to think that the great leviathans had personally honor with him to destroy them whenever encountered . so utterly lost bulk and mystic ways and so dead to anything like an apprehension of the wondrous whale was but a species of magnified mouse or at least application of time and trouble in order to kill and boil . this the matter of whales he followed these fish for the fun of it and a that length of time . as a carpenter s nails are divided into wrought was one of the wrought ones made to clinch tight and last long . they be well likened to the short square timber known by that name in inserted into it serves to brace the ship against the icy concussions they it was who by universal prescription commanded three of the captain ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on the armed with their long keen whaling spears they were as a picked trio knight of old is always accompanied by his boat steerer or harpooneer former one has been badly twisted or elbowed in the assault and and friendliness it is therefore but meet that in this place we set them belonged . first of all was queequeg whom starbuck the chief mate had selected promontory of martha s vineyard where there still exists the last neighboring island of nantucket with many of her most daring gay headers . tashtego s long lean sable hair his high cheek bones antarctic in their glittering expression—all this sufficiently warrior hunters who in quest of the great new england moose had snuffing in the trail of the wild beasts of the woodland tashtego now of the son fitly replacing the infallible arrow of the sires . to look credited the superstitions of some of the earlier puritans and of the air . tashtego was stubb the second mate s squire . third among the harpooneers was daggoo a gigantic coal black from his ears were two golden hoops so large that the sailors called them . in his youth daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler anywhere in the world but in africa nantucket and the pagan harbors life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what and erect as a giraffe moved about the decks in all the pomp of six him and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to ahasuerus daggoo was the squire of little flask who looked like a said that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men born though pretty nearly all the officers are . herein it is the same and merchant navies and the engineering forces employed in the because in all these cases the native american liberally provides the small number of these whaling seamen belong to the azores where the from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores . in like manner the islands to receive the full complement of their crew . upon the passage but islanders seem to make the best whalemen . they were nearly all acknowledging the common continent of men but each isolato living on what a set these isolatoes were . an anacharsis clootz deputation from old ahab in the pequod to lay the world s grievances before that bar never did—oh no . he went before . poor alabama boy . on the grim prelusive of the eternal time when sent for to the great quarter deck glory called a coward here hailed a hero there . seen of captain ahab . the mates regularly relieved each other at the to be the only commanders of the ship only they sometimes issued from plain they but commanded vicariously . yes their supreme lord and penetrate into the now sacred retreat of the cabin . every time i ascended to the deck from my watches below i instantly disquietude touching the unknown captain now in the seclusion of the times by the ragged elijah s diabolical incoherences uninvitedly of . but poorly could i withstand them much as in other moods i was prophet of the wharves . but whatever it was of apprehensiveness or about me in the ship it seemed against all warrantry to cherish such were a far more barbaric heathenish and motley set than any of the acquainted with still i ascribed this—and rightly ascribed it—to the in which i had so abandonedly embarked . but it was especially the most forcibly calculated to allay these colourless misgivings and three better more likely sea officers and men each in his own them americans a nantucketer a vineyarder a cape man . now it being biting polar weather though all the time running away from it to the gradually leaving that merciless winter and all its intolerable and gloomy enough mornings of the transition when with a fair wind the and melancholy rapidity that as i mounted to the deck at the call of taffrail foreboding shivers ran over me . reality outran apprehension recovery from any . he looked like a man cut away from the stake when or taking away one particle from their compacted aged robustness . his unalterable mould like cellini s cast perseus . threading its way out tawny scorched face and neck till it disappeared in his clothing you perpendicular seam sometimes made in the straight lofty trunk of a without wrenching a single twig peels and grooves out the bark from greenly alive but branded . whether that mark was born with him or certainly say . by some tacit consent throughout the voyage little or tashtego s senior an old gay head indian among the crew ahab become that way branded and then it came upon him not in the wild hint seemed inferentially negatived by what a grey manxman of nantucket had never ere this laid eye upon wild ahab . nevertheless this old manxman with preternatural powers of discernment . so that no captain ahab should be tranquilly laid out—which might hardly come to dead would find a birth mark on him from crown to sole . so powerfully did the whole grim aspect of ahab affect me and the noted that not a little of this overbearing grimness was owing to the to me that this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished the old gay head indian once “but like his dismasted craft he shipped the pequod s quarter deck and pretty close to the mizzen shrouds plank . his bone leg steadied in that hole one arm elevated and beyond the ship s ever pitching prow . there was an infinity of firmest fearless forward dedication of that glance . not a word he spoke nor gestures and expressions they plainly showed the uneasy if not only that but moody stricken ahab stood before them with a crucifixion mighty woe . ere long from his first visit in the air he withdrew into his cabin . standing in his pivot hole or seated upon an ivory stool he had or grow a little genial he became still less and less a recluse as if bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded . and by and by it for all that he said or perceptibly did on the at last sunny deck he making a passage now not regularly cruising nearly all whaling that there was little or nothing out of himself to employ or excite layer upon layer were piled upon his brow as ever all clouds choose pleasant holiday weather we came to seemed gradually to charm him may trip home to the wintry misanthropic woods even the barest few green sprouts to welcome such glad hearted visitants so ahab did air . more than once did he put forth the faint blossom of a look chapter . enter ahab to him stubb . some days elapsed and ice and icebergs all astern the pequod now went perpetually reigns on the threshold of the eternal august of the redundant days were as crystal goblets of persian sherbet heaped seemed haughty dames in jewelled velvets nursing at home in lonely suns . for sleeping man twas hard to choose between such winsome days weather did not merely lend new spells and potencies to the outward hours of eve came on then memory shot her crystals as the clear ice and more they wrought on ahab s texture . old age is always wakeful as if the longer linked with life the less the old greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit the seemed so much to live in the open air that truly speaking his visits like going down into one s tomb ”—he would mutter to himself—“for an grave dug berth . ” so almost every twenty four hours when the watches of the night were and when if a rope was to be hauled upon the forecastle the sailors it to its place for fear of disturbing their slumbering shipmates when silent steersman would watch the cabin scuttle and ere long the old way . some considering touch of humanity was in him for at times like to his wearied mates seeking repose within six inches of his ivory step that their dreams would have been on the crunching teeth of and as with heavy lumber like pace he was measuring the ship from with a certain unassured deprecating humorousness hinted that if nay but there might be some way of muffling the noise hinting insertion into it of the ivory heel . ah . stubb thou didst not know fashion . but go thy ways i had forgot . below to thy nightly grave last . —down dog and kennel . ” starting at the unforseen concluding exclamation of the so suddenly “i am not used to be spoken to that way sir i do but less than half as if to avoid some passionate temptation . “no sir not yet ” said stubb emboldened “i will not tamely be or i ll clear the world of thee . ” as he said this ahab advanced upon him with such overbearing terrors muttered stubb as he found himself descending the cabin scuttle . “it s back and strike him or—what s that . —down here on my knees and pray for first time i ever did pray . it s queer very queer and he s queer ever sailed with . how he flashed at me . —his eyes like powder pans . is something on a deck when it cracks . he aint in his bed now either didn t that dough boy the steward tell me that of a morning he always sheets down at the foot and the coverlid almost tied into knots and it . a hot old man . i guess he s got what some folks ashore call a toothache . well well i don t know what it is but the lord keep me after hold for every night as dough boy tells me he suspects what s the hold . ain t that queer now . but there s no telling it s the old born into the world if only to fall right asleep . and now that i think queer too . damn me but all things are queer come to think of em . commandment and sleep when you can is my twelfth—so here goes again . a donkey and piled a lot of jackasses on top of that . he might as didn t observe it i was so taken all aback with his brow somehow . it don t stand right on my legs . coming afoul of that old man has a sort though—how . how . how . —but the only way s to stash it so here goes to thinks over by daylight . ” bulwarks and then as had been usual with him of late calling a his pipe . lighting the pipe at the binnacle lamp and planting the stool fabricated saith tradition of the tusks of the narwhale . how could bethinking him of the royalty it symbolized . for a khan of the plank in quick and constant puffs which blew back again into his face . “how longer soothes . oh my pipe . hard must it go with me if thy charm be ignorantly smoking to windward all the while to windward and with the strongest and fullest of trouble . what business have i with this vapors among mild white hairs not among torn iron grey locks like waves the same instant the ship shot by the bubble the sinking pipe chapter . queen mab . next morning stubb accosted flask . “such a queer dream king post i never had . you know the old man s kick back upon my soul my little man i kicked my leg right off . and kicking at it . but what was still more curious flask—you know how seemed to be thinking to myself that after all it was not much of an a real leg only a false leg . and there s a mighty difference between hand flask fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane . thinks i to myself all the while mind while i was stubbing my silly all all the while i say i was thinking to myself ‘what s his leg playful cudgelling—in fact only a whaleboning that he gave me—not a foot part—what a small sort of end it is whereas if a broad footed whittled down to a point only . but now comes the greatest joke of the badger haired old merman with a hump on his back takes me by the man but i was frightened . such a phiz . but somehow next moment i was is that of yours i should like to know mr . humpback . do you want a round his stern to me bent over and dragging up a lot of seaweed he stern was stuck full of marlinspikes with the points out . says i on said he ‘wise stubb and kept muttering it all the time a sort of stop saying over his ‘wise stubb wise stubb i thought i might as foot for it when he roared out ‘stop that kicking . ‘halloa says i argue the insult . captain ahab kicked ye didn t he . ‘yes he did leg didn t he . ‘yes he did says i . ‘well then says he ‘wise will . it wasn t a common pitch pine leg he kicked with was it . no you an honor i consider it an honor . listen wise stubb . in old england made garter knights of but be your boast stubb that ye were kicked by him account his kicks honors and on no account kick back with that he all of a sudden seemed somehow in some queer fashion to hammock . now what do you think of that dream flask . ” “i don t know it seems a sort of foolish to me tho . ” “may be may be . but it s made a wise man of me flask . d ye see ahab you can do flask is to let the old man alone never speak to him something queer about that eh . a white whale—did ye mark that man . ahab has that that s bloody on his mind . but mum he comes this way . ” in its unshored harbourless immensities . ere that come to pass ere the leviathan at the outset it is but well to attend to a matter more special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts which that i would now fain put before you . yet is it no easy task . the essayed . listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down . “no branch of zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled as to the true method of dividing the cetacea into groups and families . sperm whale says surgeon beale a . d . . “unfitness to pursue our research in the unfathomable waters . ” strewn with thorns . ” “all these incomplete indications but serve to those lights of zoology and anatomy . nevertheless though of real some small degree with cetology or the science of whales . many are large or in little written of the whale . run over a few —the authors ray linnæus rondeletius willoughby green artedi sibbald brisson cuvier john hunter owen scoresby beale bennett j . ross browne what ultimate generalizing purpose all these have written the above ever saw living whales and but one of them was a real professional subject of the greenland or right whale he is the best existing sperm whale compared with which the greenland whale is almost unworthy upon the throne of the seas . he is not even by any means the largest of profound ignorance which till some seventy years back invested the this present day still reigns in all but some few scientific retreats to nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the great poets of past to them the monarch of the seas . but the time has at last come for a greenland whale is deposed —the great sperm whale now reigneth . there are only two books in being which at all pretend to put the degree succeed in the attempt . those books are beale s and bennett s exact and reliable men . the original matter touching the sperm whale to it is of excellent quality though mostly confined to scientific lives not complete in any literature . far above all other hunted comprehensive classification if only an easy outline one for the laborers . as no better man advances to take this matter in hand i because any human thing supposed to be complete must for that very description of the various species or—in this place at least—to much a systematization of cetology . i am the architect not the builder . but it is a ponderous task no ordinary letter sorter in the after them to have one s hands among the unspeakable foundations that i should essay to hook the nose of this leviathan . the awful covenant with thee . behold the hope of him is vain . but i have swam whales with these visible hands i am in earnest and i will try . there is in the very vestibule attested by the fact that in some quarters it nature a . d . linnæus declares “i hereby separate the whales from sharks and shad alewives and herring against linnæus s express edict leviathan . the grounds upon which linnæus would fain have banished the whales from heart their lungs their movable eyelids their hollow ears penem meritoque . ” i submitted all this to my friends simeon macey and charley they united in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogether ground that the whale is a fish and call upon holy jonah to back me . respect does the whale differ from other fish . above linnæus has given whereas all other fish are lungless and cold blooded . next how shall we define the whale by his obvious externals so as whale is a spouting fish with a horizontal tail . there you have him . meditation . a walrus spouts much like a whale but the walrus is not a still more cogent as coupled with the first . almost any one must have vertical or up and down tail . whereas among spouting fish the tail position . by the above definition of what a whale is i do by no means exclude with the whale by the best informed nantucketers nor on the other alien . hence all the smaller spouting and horizontal tailed fish grand divisions of the entire whale host . i am aware that down to the present time the fish styled lamatins and included by many naturalists among the whales . but as these pig fish and feeding on wet hay and especially as they do not spout i deny passports to quit the kingdom of cetology . first according to magnitude i divide the whales into three primary all both small and large . i . the folio whale ii . the octavo whale iii . the duodecimo whale . as the type of the folio i present the sperm whale of the octavo sperm whale ii . the right whale iii . the fin back whale iv . bottom whale . book i . folio chapter i . sperm whale . —this whale among the whale and the anvil headed whale is the present cachalot of the long words . he is without doubt the largest inhabitant of the globe aspect and lastly by far the most valuable in commerce he being the obtained . all his peculiarities will in many other places be enlarged considered it is absurd . some centuries ago when the sperm whale was was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish in those days creature identical with the one then known in england as the greenland that quickening humor of the greenland whale which the first syllable exceedingly scarce not being used for light but only as an ointment nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . when as i opine in the course of still retained by the dealers no doubt to enhance its value by a must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this the most venerable of the leviathans being the one first regularly baleen and the oil specially known as “whale oil ” an inferior article all the following titles the whale the greenland whale the black deal of obscurity concerning the identity of the species thus the second species of my folios . it is the great mysticetus of the baleine ordinaire of the french whalemen the growlands walfish of the hunted by the dutch and english in the arctic seas it is the whale the brazil banks on the nor west coast and various other parts of english and the right whale of the americans . but they precisely agree determinate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction . it is by some departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate . reference to elucidating the sperm whale . book i . folio chapter iii . fin back . —under this head i reckon long john has been seen almost in every sea and is commonly the whale atlantic in the new york packet tracks . in the length he attains and portly girth and a lighter colour approaching to olive . his great folds of large wrinkles . his grand distinguishing feature the fin is some three or four feet long growing vertically from the hinder end . even if not the slightest other part of the creature be visible surface . when the sea is moderately calm and slightly marked with upon the wrinkled surface it may well be supposed that the watery wavy hour lines graved on it . on that ahaz dial the shadow often goes men are man haters . very shy always going solitary unexpectedly straight and single lofty jet rising like a tall misanthropic spear swimming as to defy all present pursuit from man this leviathan seems that style upon his back . from having the baleen in his mouth the species denominated whalebone whales that is whales with baleen . of varieties most of which however are little known . broad nosed whales whales and rostrated whales are the fishermen s names for a few sorts . in connection with this appellative of “whalebone whales ” it is of convenient in facilitating allusions to some kind of whales yet it is upon either his baleen or hump or fin or teeth notwithstanding that afford the basis for a regular system of cetology than any other how then . the baleen hump back fin and teeth these are things whose without any regard to what may be the nature of their structure in humpbacked whale each has a hump but there the similitude ceases . has baleen but there again the similitude ceases . and it is just the they form such irregular combinations or in the case of any one of general methodization formed upon such a basis . on this rock every one whale in his anatomy—there at least we shall be able to hit the greenland whale s anatomy more striking than his baleen . yet we have greenland whale . and if you descend into the bowels of the various available to the systematizer as those external ones already bodily in their entire liberal volume and boldly sort them that way . one that can possibly succeed for it alone is practicable . to proceed . book i . folio chapter iv . hump back . —this whale is often seen and towed into harbor . he has a great pack on him like a peddler or popular name for him does not sufficiently distinguish him since the valuable . he has baleen . he is the most gamesome and light hearted of other of them . book i . folio chapter v . razor back . —of this whale little is retiring nature he eludes both hunters and philosophers . though no rises in a long sharp ridge . let him go . i know little more of him nor gentleman with a brimstone belly doubtless got by scraping along the at least i have never seen him except in the remoter southern seas and never chased he would run away with rope walks of line . prodigies are of ye nor can the oldest nantucketer . thus ends book i . folio and now begins book ii . octavo . octavoes . —these embrace the whales of middling magnitude among which iii . the narwhale iv . the thrasher v . the killer . why this book of whales is not denominated the quarto is very plain . the former order nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to them does not preserve the shape of the folio volume but the octavo volume loud sonorous breathing or rather blowing has furnished a proverb to popularly classed among whales . but possessing all the grand him for one . he is of moderate octavo size varying from fifteen to waist . he swims in herds he is never regularly hunted though his oil fishermen his approach is regarded as premonitory of the advance of the fishermen s names for all these fish for generally they are the best . suggest another . i do so now touching the black fish so called hyena whale if you please . his voracity is well known and from the carries an everlasting mephistophelean grin on his face . this whale all latitudes . he has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal hooked fin profitably employed the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture the employment—as some frugal housekeepers in the absence of company and though their blubber is very thin some of these whales will yield you whale . —another instance of a curiously named whale so named i suppose creature is some sixteen feet in length while its horn averages five speaking this horn is but a lengthened tusk growing out from the jaw on the sinister side which has an ill effect giving its owner precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers it would be hard to bill fish though some sailors tell me that the narwhale employs it for said it was used for an ice piercer for the narwhale rising to the horn up and so breaks through . but you cannot prove either of these horn may really be used by the narwhale—however that may be—it would the narwhale i have heard called the tusked whale the horned whale unicornism to be found in almost every kingdom of animated nature . from sea unicorn s horn was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote it was also distilled to a volatile salts for fainting ladies the same originally it was in itself accounted an object of great curiosity . voyage when queen bess did gallantly wave her jewelled hand to him thames “when sir martin returned from that voyage ” saith black horn of the narwhale which for a long period after hung in the castle bended knees did likewise present to her highness another horn milk white ground colour dotted with round and oblong spots of black . and he is seldom hunted . he is mostly found in the circumpolar seas . book ii . octavo chapter iv . killer . —of this whale little is naturalist . from what i have seen of him at a distance i should say feegee fish . he sometimes takes the great folio whales by the lip and the killer is never hunted . i never heard what sort of oil he has . ground of its indistinctness . for we are all killers on land and on for his tail which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes . he flogging him as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar are outlaws even in the lawless seas . thus ends book ii . octavo and begins book iii . duodecimo . duodecimoes . —these include the smaller whales . i . the huzza porpoise . possibly seem strange that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five sense always conveys an idea of hugeness . but the creatures set down definition of what a whale is— i . e . a spouting fish with a horizontal common porpoise found almost all over the globe . the name is of my own must be done to distinguish them . i call him thus because he always themselves to heaven like caps in a fourth of july crowd . their fine spirits they invariably come from the breezy billows to windward . a lucky omen . if you yourself can withstand three cheers at beholding gamesomeness is not in ye . a well fed plump huzza porpoise will yield extracted from his jaws is exceedingly valuable . it is in request among is good eating you know . it may never have occurred to you that a readily discernible . but the next time you have a chance watch him very savage . he is only found i think in the pacific . he is somewhat provoke him and he will buckle to a shark . i have lowered for him many largest kind of porpoise and only found in the pacific so far as it designated is that of the fishers—right whale porpoise from the shape he differs in some degree from the huzza porpoise being of a gentleman like figure . he has no fins on his back most other porpoises hue . but his mealy mouth spoils all . though his entire back down to his in a ship s hull called the “bright waist ” that line streaks him from the white comprises part of his head and the whole of his mouth which meal bag . a most mean and mealy aspect . his oil is much like that of porpoise is the smallest of the whales . above you have all the half fabulous whales which as an american whaleman i know by fore castle appellations for possibly such a list may be valuable to any of the following whales shall hereafter be caught and marked then folio octavo or duodecimo magnitude —the bottle nose whale the junk cannon whale the scragg whale the coppered whale the elephant whale dutch and old english authorities there might be quoted other lists omit them as altogether obsolete and can hardly help suspecting them here and at once perfected . you cannot but plainly see that i have unfinished even as the great cathedral of cologne was left with the erections may be finished by their first architects grand ones true completing anything . this whole book is but a draught—nay but the chapter . the specksnyder . concerning the officers of the whale craft this seems as good a place from the existence of the harpooneer class of officers a class unknown by the fact that originally in the old dutch fishery two centuries person now called the captain but was divided between him and an usage however in time made it equivalent to chief harpooneer . in and general management of the vessel while over the whale hunting reigned supreme . in the british greenland fishery under the corrupted his former dignity is sadly abridged . at present he ranks simply as inferior subalterns . nevertheless as upon the good conduct of the in the american fishery he is not only an important officer in the ground the command of the ship s deck is also his therefore the grand from the men before the mast and be in some way distinguished as their their social equal . now the grand distinction drawn between officer and man at sea is merchantmen alike the mates have their quarters with the captain and the after part of the ship . that is to say they take their meals in it . though the long period of a southern whaling voyage by far the longest the community of interest prevailing among a company all of whom high common luck together with their common vigilance intrepidity and less rigorous discipline than in merchantmen generally yet never mind primitive instances live together for all that the punctilious and in no instance done away . indeed many are the nantucket ships in grandeur not surpassed in any military navy nay extorting almost as shabbiest of pilot cloth . and though of all men the moody captain of the pequod was the least he ever exacted was implicit instantaneous obedience though he quarter deck and though there were times when owing to peculiar addressed them in unusual terms whether of condescension or in unobservant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea . nor perhaps will it fail to be eventually perceived that behind incidentally making use of them for other and more private ends than his brain which had otherwise in a good degree remained unmanifested irresistible dictatorship . for be a man s intellectual superiority what other men without the aid of some sort of external arts and this it is that for ever keeps god s true princes of the empire from give to those men who become famous more through their infinite through their undoubted superiority over the dead level of the mass . superstitions invest them that in some royal instances even to idiot nicholas the czar the ringed crown of geographical empire encircles an tremendous centralization . nor will the tragic dramatist who would ever forget a hint incidentally so important in his art as the one grimness and shagginess and in this episode touching emperors and whale hunter like him and therefore all outward majestical trappings must needs be plucked at from the skies and dived for in the deep and chapter . the cabin table . it is noon and dough boy the steward thrusting his pale and master who sitting in the lee quarter boat has just been taking the smooth medallion shaped tablet reserved for that daily purpose on tidings you would think that moody ahab had not heard his menial . but deck and in an even unexhilarated voice saying “dinner mr . the first emir has every reason to suppose that he is seated then and after a grave peep into the binnacle says with some touch of emir lounges about the rigging awhile and then slightly shaking the rope he likewise takes up the old burden and with a rapid “dinner seems to feel relieved from some curious restraint for tipping all shoes he strikes into a sharp but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right his cap up into the mizentop for a shelf he goes down rollicking so processions by bringing up the rear with music . but ere stepping into then independent hilarious little flask enters king ahab s presence artificialness of sea usages that while in the open air of the deck defyingly enough towards their commander yet ten to one let those same commander s cabin and straightway their inoffensive not to say table this is marvellous sometimes most comical . wherefore this babylon and to have been belshazzar not haughtily but courteously who in the rightly regal and intelligent spirit presides over his own and dominion of individual influence for the time that man s royalty who has but once dined his friends has tasted what it is to be cæsar . now if to this consideration you superadd the official supremacy of a peculiarity of sea life just mentioned . over his ivory inlaid table ahab presided like a mute maned sea lion deferential cubs . in his own proper turn each officer waited to be there seemed not to lurk the smallest social arrogance . with one mind the chief dish before him . i do not suppose that for the world they upon so neutral a topic as the weather . no . and when reaching out his thereby motioned starbuck s plate towards him the mate received his started if perchance the knife grazed against the plate and chewed the coronation banquet at frankfort where the german emperor were somehow solemn meals eaten in awful silence and yet at table old it was to choking stubb when a rat made a sudden racket in the hold of this weary family party . his were the shinbones of the saline beef himself this must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny in the more would he have been able to hold his head up in this honest world helped himself the chances were ahab had never so much as noticed it . thought the owners of the ship denied it to him on account of its long a voyage in such marketless waters butter was at a premium and was a butterless man . another thing . flask was the last person down at the dinner and flask jammed in point of time . starbuck and stubb both had the start of him even who is but a peg higher than flask happens to have but a small must bestir himself he will not get more than three mouthfuls that deck . therefore it was that flask once admitted in private that ever had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry more or less . in him . peace and satisfaction thought flask have for ever departed old fashioned beef in the forecastle as i used to when i was before glory there s the insanity of life . besides if it were so that any official capacity all that sailor had to do in order to obtain ample through the cabin sky light sitting silly and dumfoundered before in the pequod s cabin . after their departure taking place in inverted restored to some hurried order by the pallid steward . and then the legatees . they made a sort of temporary servants hall of the high and invisible domineerings of the captain s table was the entire care free fellows the harpooneers . while their masters the mates seemed afraid their food with such a relish that there was a report to it . they dined with spices . such portentous appetites had queequeg and tashtego that dough boy was fain to bring on a great baron of salt junk seemingly did not go with a nimble hop skip and jump then tashtego had an harpoon wise . and once daggoo seized with a sudden humor assisted into a great empty wooden trencher while tashtego knife in hand naturally a very nervous shuddering sort of little fellow this nurse . and what with the standing spectacle of the black terrific ahab dough boy s whole life was one continual lip quiver . commonly after would escape from their clutches into his little pantry adjoining and over . it was a sight to see queequeg seated over against tashtego opposing the floor for a bench would have brought his hearse plumed head to the cabin framework to shake as when an african elephant goes passenger in not to say dainty . it seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively broad baronial and superb a person . but doubtless this noble savage his dilated nostrils snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds . not by mortal barbaric smack of the lip in eating—an ugly sound enough—so marks of teeth lurked in his own lean arms . and when he would hear be picked the simple witted steward all but shattered the crockery did the whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets for they would ostentatiously sharpen their knives that grating sound did that in his island days queequeg for one must certainly have been hard fares the white waiter who waits upon cannibals . not a napkin great delight the three salt sea warriors would rise and depart to in them at every step like moorish scimetars in scabbards . but though these barbarians dined in the cabin and nominally lived scarcely ever in it except at mealtimes and just before sleeping time captains who as a set rather incline to the opinion that by rights anybody else is at any time permitted there . so that in real truth have lived out of the cabin than in it . for when they did enter it it moment only to be turned out the next and as a permanent thing was no companionship socially ahab was inaccessible . though nominally lived in the world as the last of the grisly bears lived in settled of the woods burying himself in the hollow of a tree lived out the age ahab s soul shut up in the caved trunk of his body there fed chapter . the mast head . it was during the more pleasant weather that in due rotation with the simultaneously with the vessel s leaving her port even though she may cruising ground . and if after a three four or five years voyage she even—then her mast heads are kept manned to the last and not till her relinquish the hope of capturing one whale more . now as the business of standing mast heads ashore or afloat is a here . i take it that the earliest standers of mast heads were the old for though their progenitors the builders of babel must doubtless by or africa either yet ere the final truck was put to it as that great dread gale of god s wrath therefore we cannot give these babel nation of mast head standers is an assertion based upon the general astronomical purposes a theory singularly supported by the peculiar prodigious long upliftings of their legs those old astronomers were look outs of a modern ship sing out for a sail or a whale just bearing who built him a lofty stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole ground with a tackle in him we have a remarkable instance of a place by fogs or frosts rain hail or sleet but valiantly facing standers of mast heads we have but a lifeless set mere stone iron are still entirely incompetent to the business of singing out upon the column of vendome stands with arms folded some one hundred and whether louis philippe louis blanc or louis the devil . great baltimore and like one of hercules pillars his column marks that nelson also on a capstan of gun metal stands his mast head in token is yet given that a hidden hero is there for where there is nelson will answer a single hail from below however madly invoked to however it may be surmised that their spirits penetrate through the shunned . it may seem unwarrantable to couple in any respect the mast head so is plainly evinced by an item for which obed macy the sole that in the early times of the whale fishery ere ships were regularly lofty spars along the sea coast to which the look outs ascended by a few years ago this same plan was adopted by the bay whalemen of new boats nigh the beach . but this custom has now become obsolete turn we three mast heads are kept manned from sun rise to sun set the seamen every two hours . in the serene weather of the tropics it is exceedingly delightful . there you stand a hundred feet above the silent decks beneath you and between your legs as it were swim the hugest monsters colossus at old rhodes . there you stand lost in the infinite series of indolently rolls the drowsy trade winds blow everything resolves you uneventfulness invests you you hear no news read no gazettes extras unnecessary excitements you hear of no domestic afflictions bankrupt you shall have for dinner—for all your meals for three years and more voyage as often happens the sum of the various hours you spend at the deplored that the place to which you devote so considerable a portion anything approaching to a cosy inhabitiveness or adapted to breed a a hearse a sentry box a pulpit a coach or any other of those small most usual point of perch is the head of the t gallant mast where you called the t gallant cross trees . here tossed about by the sea the be sure in cold weather you may carry your house aloft with you in watch coat is no more of a house than the unclad body for as the soul in it nor even move out of it without running great risk of perishing watch coat is not so much of a house as it is a mere envelope or drawers in your body and no more can you make a convenient closet of southern whale ship are unprovided with those enviable little tents or whaler are protected from the inclement weather of the frozen seas . in icebergs in quest of the greenland whale and incidentally for the admirable volume all standers of mast heads are furnished with a crow s nest of the glacier which was the name of captain sleet s himself he being the original inventor and patentee and free from all after our own names we fathers being the original inventors and apparatus we may beget . in shape the sleet s crow s nest is something furnished with a movable side screen to keep to windward of your head it through a little trap hatch in the bottom . on the after side or underneath for umbrellas comforters and coats . in front is a leather other nautical conveniences . when captain sleet in person stood his rifle with him also fixed in the rack together with a powder flask vagrant sea unicorns infesting those waters for you cannot water but to shoot down upon them is a very different thing . now it all the little detailed conveniences of his crow s nest but though he scientific account of his experiments in this crow s nest with a small resulting from what is called the “local attraction” of all binnacle the ship s planks and in the glacier s case perhaps to there having the captain is very discreet and scientific here yet for all his “approximate errors ” he knows very well captain sleet that he was being attracted occasionally towards that well replenished little easy reach of his hand . though upon the whole i greatly admire and very ill of him that he should so utterly ignore that case bottle with mittened fingers and hooded head he was studying the mathematics pole . but if we southern whale fishers are not so snugly housed aloft as greatly counter balanced by the widely contrasting serenity of those to lounge up the rigging very leisurely resting in the top to have a then ascending a little way further and throwing a lazy leg over the at last mount to my ultimate destination . let me make a clean breast of it here and frankly admit that i kept could i—being left completely to myself at such a thought engendering whale ships standing orders “keep your weather eye open and sing out nantucket . beware of enlisting in your vigilant fisheries any lad with offers to ship with the phædon instead of bowditch in his head . beware killed and this sunken eyed young platonist will tow you ten wakes are these monitions at all unneeded . for nowadays the whale fishery young men disgusted with the carking cares of earth and seeking himself upon the mast head of some luckless disappointed whale ship “roll on thou deep and dark blue ocean roll . ten thousand philosophers to task upbraiding them with not feeling sufficient to all honorable ambition as that in their secret souls they would platonists have a notion that their vision is imperfect they are left their opera glasses at home . “why thou monkey ” said a harpooneer to one of these lads “we ve been yet . whales are scarce as hen s teeth whenever thou art up here . ” the far horizon but lulled into such an opium like listlessness of cadence of waves with thoughts that at last he loses his identity blue bottomless soul pervading mankind and nature and every strange dimly discovered uprising fin of some undiscernible form seems to him continually flitting through it . in this enchanted mood thy spirit like cranmer s sprinkled pantheistic ashes forming at last a part of gently rolling ship by her borrowed from the sea by the sea from ye move your foot or hand an inch slip your hold at all and your perhaps at mid day in the fairest weather with one half throttled more to rise for ever . heed it well ye pantheists . shortly after breakfast ahab as was his wont ascended the hour as country gentlemen after the same meal take a few turns in rounds upon planks so familiar to his tread that they were all over you fixedly gaze too upon that ribbed and dented brow there also unsleeping ever pacing thought . but on the occasion in question those dents looked deeper even as his thought was ahab that at every uniform turn that he made now at the turn in him as he turned and pace in him as he paced so completely every outer movement . “d ye mark him flask . ” whispered stubb “the chick that s in him pecks deck with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect . it drew near the close of day . suddenly he came to a halt by the with one hand grasping a shroud he ordered starbuck to send everybody ship board except in some extraordinary case . “send everybody aft ” repeated ahab . “mast heads there . come down . ” when the entire ship s company were assembled and with curious and not the weather horizon when a storm is coming up ahab after rapidly started from his standpoint and as though not a soul were nigh him hat he continued to pace unmindful of the wondering whispering among summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat . voices . “good . ” cried ahab with a wild approval in his tones observing the thrown them . “and what do ye next men . ” “lower away and after him . ” “and what tune is it ye pull to men . ” “a dead whale or a stove boat . ” more and more strangely and fiercely glad and approving grew the gaze curiously at each other as if marvelling how it was that they pivot hole with one hand reaching high up a shroud and tightly whale . look ye . d ye see this spanish ounce of gold . ”—holding up a see it . mr . starbuck hand me yon top maul . ” while the mate was getting the hammer ahab without speaking was to heighten its lustre and without using any words was meanwhile lowly inarticulate that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his with the hammer uplifted in one hand exhibiting the gold with the me a white headed whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw punctured in his starboard fluke—look ye whosoever of ye raises me hailed the act of nailing the gold to the mast . “it s a white whale i say ” resumed ahab as he threw down the white water if ye see but a bubble sing out . ” all this while tashtego daggoo and queequeg had looked on with even the wrinkled brow and crooked jaw they had started as if each was some call moby dick . ” “moby dick . ” shouted ahab . “do ye know the white whale then tash . ” “does he fan tail a little curious sir before he goes down . ” said the parmacetty and mighty quick captain ahab . ” “and he have one two three—oh . good many iron in him hide too him—him—” faltering hard for a word and screwing his hand round and and wrenched in him aye daggoo his spout is a big one like a whole great annual sheep shearing aye tashtego and he fan tails like a seen—moby dick—moby dick . ” “captain ahab ” said starbuck who with stubb and flask had thus far struck with a thought which somewhat explained all the wonder . “captain thy leg . ” “who told thee that . ” cried ahab then pausing “aye starbuck aye my brought me to this dead stump i stand on now . aye aye ” he shouted “aye aye . it was that accursed white whale that razed me made a poor measureless imprecations he shouted out “aye aye . and i ll chase him and round perdition s flames before i give him up . and this is what ye and over all sides of earth till he spouts black blood and rolls fin look brave . ” “aye aye . ” shouted the harpooneers and seamen running closer to the moby dick . ” “god bless ye ” he seemed to half sob and half shout . “god bless ye face about mr . starbuck wilt thou not chase the white whale . art not ahab if it fairly comes in the way of the business we follow but i barrels will thy vengeance yield thee even if thou gettest it captain little lower layer . if money s to be the measurer man and the girdling it with guineas one to every three parts of an inch then rings most vast but hollow . ” “vengeance on a dumb brute . ” cried starbuck “that simply smote thee captain ahab seems blasphemous . ” “hark ye yet again—the little lower layer . all visible objects man undoubted deed—there some unknown but still reasoning thing puts forth will strike strike through the mask . how can the prisoner reach that wall shoved near to me . sometimes i think there s naught beyond . strength with an inscrutable malice sinewing it . that inscrutable white whale principal i will wreak that hate upon him . talk not to me sun do that then could i do the other since there is ever a sort of master man is even that fair play . who s over me . truth hath no a doltish stare . so so thou reddenest and palest my heat has melted thing unsays itself . there are men from whom warm words are small turkish cheeks of spotted tawn—living breathing pictures painted by that live and seek and give no reasons for the torrid life they feel . matter of the whale . see stubb . he laughs . see yonder chilian . he tost sapling cannot starbuck . and what is it . reckon it . tis but to this one poor hunt then the best lance out of all nantucket surely whetstone . ah . constrainings seize thee i see . the billow lifts thee . aside something shot from my dilated nostrils he has inhaled it in rebellion . ” “god keep me . —keep us all . ” murmured starbuck lowly . but in his joy at the enchanted tacit acquiescence of the mate ahab hold nor yet the presaging vibrations of the winds in the cordage nor their hearts sank in . for again starbuck s downcast eyes lighted up winds blew on the sails filled out the ship heaved and rolled as but rather are ye predictions than warnings ye shadows . yet not so within . for with little external to constrain us the innermost ordered them to produce their weapons . then ranging them before him mates stood at his side with their lances and the rest of the ship s searchingly eyeing every man of his crew . but those wild eyes met his leader ere he rushes on at their head in the trail of the bison but nearest seaman . “the crew alone now drink . round with it round . short round excellently . it spiralizes in ye forks out at the way it comes . hand it me—here s a hollow . men ye seem the years so ye mates flank me with your lances and ye harpooneers stand there sort revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers before me . o men hand it me . why now this pewter had run brimming again wer t not touch the axis . ” so saying with extended arm he grasped the three suddenly and nervously twitched them meanwhile glancing intently from nameless interior volition he would fain have shocked into them the magnetic life . the three mates quailed before his strong sustained eye of starbuck fell downright . “in vain . ” cried ahab “but maybe tis well . for did ye three but had perhaps expired from out me . perchance too it would have dropped appoint ye three cupbearers to my three pagan kinsmen there—yon three the task . what when the great pope washes the feet of beggars using that shall bend ye to it . i do not order ye ye will it . cut your detached iron part of their harpoons some three feet long held barbs not the goblet end . turn up the socket . so so now ye cup bearers slowly going from one officer to the other he brimmed the harpoon them ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble league . ha . it . drink ye harpooneers . drink and swear ye men that man the not hunt moby dick to his death . ” the long barbed steel goblets were spirits were simultaneously quaffed down with a hiss . starbuck paled pewter went the rounds among the frantic crew when waving his free chapter . sunset . the cabin by the stern windows ahab sitting alone and gazing out . i leave a white and turbid wake pale waters paler cheeks where er i but first i pass . yonder by ever brimming goblet s rim the warm waves blush like wine . down my soul mounts up . she wearies with her endless hill . is then bright with many a gem i the wearer see not its far flashings but i know—not gold . tis split too—that i feel the jagged edge galls me mine the sort that needs no helmet in the most brain battering fight . dry heat upon my brow . oh . time was when as the sunrise nobly spurred me all loveliness is anguish to me since i can ne er enjoy . gifted subtly and most malignantly . damned in the midst of paradise . good but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels and they stand before me and i their match . oh hard . that to fire others the what i ve willed i ll do . they think me mad—starbuck does but i m comprehend itself . the prophecy was that i should be dismembered dismemberer . now then be the prophet and the fulfiller one . that s cricket players ye pugilists ye deaf burkes and blinded bendigoes . i size don t pommel me . no ye ve knocked me down and i am up again i have no long gun to reach ye . come ahab s compliments to ye come swerve yourselves . man has ye there . swerve me . the path to my fixed over unsounded gorges through the rifled hearts of mountains under angle to the iron way . insufferable sting that sanity should ground arms on such a field . but see his impious end but feel that i must help him to it . will i nill no knife to cut . horrible old man . who s over him he cries —aye he oh . i plainly see my miserable office —to obey rebelling and worse would shrivel me up had i it . yet is there hope . time and tide flow small gold fish has its glassy globe . his heaven insulting purpose god clock s run down my heart the all controlling weight i have no key to human mothers in them . whelped somewhere by the sharkish sea . the white forward . mark the unfaltering silence aft . methinks it pictures life . bantering bow but only to drag dark ahab after it where he broods and further on hunted by its wolfish gurglings . the long howl thrills an hour like this with soul beat down and held to knowledge —as wild the latent horror in thee . but tis not me . that horror s out of me . ye ye grim phantom futures . stand by me hold me bind me o ye chapter . first night watch . fore top . stubb solus and mending a brace . ha . ha . ha . ha . hem . clear my throat . —i ve been thinking over it ever laugh s the wisest easiest answer to all that s queer and come what predestinated . i heard not all his talk with starbuck but to my poor the old mogul has fixed him too . i twigged it knew it had had the his skull i saw it . well stubb wise stubb—that s my title—well coming but be it what it will i ll go to it laughing . such a waggish skirra . what s my juicy little pear at home doing now . crying its eyes a frigate s pennant and so am i—fa la . lirra skirra . oh— as bubbles that swim on the beaker s brim and break on the lips while he s my superior he has his too if i m not mistaken . —aye aye sir chapter . midnight forecastle . harpooneers and sailors . foresail rises and discovers the watch standing lounging leaning farewell and adieu to you spanish ladies . farewell and adieu to you digestion . take a tonic follow me . sings and all follow . those gallant whales that blew at every strand . oh your tubs in your fine whales hand boys over hand . so be cheery my lads . may your bell boy . strike the bell eight thou pip . thou blackling . and let me so thrusts his head down the scuttle star bo l e e n s a h o y . this in our old mogul s wine it s quite as deadening to some as ground tier butts . at em again . there take this copper pump and hail it s the resurrection they must kiss their last and come to judgment . amsterdam butter . french sailor . hist boys . let s have a jig or two before we ride to by all legs . pip . little pip . hurrah with your tambourine . pip . sulky and sleepy . don t know where it is . french sailor . beat thy belly then and wag thy ears . jig it men i indian file and gallop into the double shuffle . throw yourselves . taste . i m used to ice floors . i m sorry to throw cold water on the his left hand by his right and say to himself how d ye do . partners . turn grasshopper . long island sailor . well well ye sulkies there s plenty more of us . comes the music now for it . azore sailor . ascending and pitching the tambourine up the mount . now boys . the half of them dance to the tambourine some go it stig it quig it bell boy . make fire flies break the jinglers . pip . jinglers you say . —there goes another dropped off i pound it so . china sailor . rattle thy teeth then and pound away make a pagoda of it . split jibs . tear yourselves . tashtego . quietly smoking . that s a white man he calls that fun they are dancing over . i ll dance over your grave i will—that s the corners . o christ . to think of the green navies and the green skulled have it and so tis right to make one ballroom of it . dance on lads whales in a calm—give us a whiff tash . they cease dancing and gather in clusters . meantime the sky high tide ganges turned to wind . thou showest thy black brow seeva . maltese sailor . reclining and shaking his cap . it s the waves—the would all the waves were women then i d go drown and chassee with it . —as those swift glances of warm wild bosoms in the dance when the interlacings of the limbs—lithe swayings—coyings—flutterings . lip . else come satiety . eh pagan . nudging . tahitan sailor . reclining on a mat . hail holy nakedness of our still rest me on thy mat but the soft soil has slid . i saw thee woven and wilted quite . ah me . —not thou nor i can bear the change . how then pirohitee s peak of spears when they leap down the crags and drown the feet . portuguese sailor . how the sea rolls swashing gainst the side . stand they ll go lunging presently . danish sailor . crack crack old ship . so long as thou crackest thou afraid than the isle fort at cattegat put there to fight the baltic tell him he must always kill a squall something as they burst a lads to hunt him up his whale . all . aye . aye . old manx sailor . how the three pines shake . pines are the hardest sort but the crew s cursed clay . steady helmsman . steady . this is the sort sea . our captain has his birthmark look yonder boys there s another quarried out of it . spanish sailor . aside . he wants to bully ah . —the old grudge makes dark side of mankind—devilish dark at that . no offence . daggoo grimly . none . st . jago s sailor . that spaniard s mad or drunk . but that can t be or working . th nantucket sailor . what s that i saw—lightning . yes . spanish sailor . no daggoo showing his teeth . daggoo springing . swallow thine mannikin . white skin white liver . spanish sailor meeting him . knife thee heartily . big frame small men—both brawlers . humph . belfast sailor . a row . arrah a row . the virgin be blessed a row . cain struck abel . sweet work right work . no . why then god mad st top gallant sails . stand by to reef topsails . all . the squall . the squall . jump my jollies . they scatter . pip shrinking under the windlass . jollies . lord help such jollies . pip here comes the royal yard . it s worse than being in the whirled but there they go all cursing and here i don t . fine prospects to squall . but those chaps there are worse yet—they are your white heard all their chat just now and the white whale—shirr . shirr . —but my tambourine—that anaconda of an old man swore em in to hunt him . oh this small black boy down here preserve him from all men that have no chapter . moby dick . i ishmael was one of that crew my shouts had gone up with the rest did i hammer and clinch my oath because of the dread in my soul . a seemed mine . with greedy ears i learned the history of that murderous violence and revenge . for some time past though at intervals only the unaccompanied frequented by the sperm whale fishermen . but not all of them knew of him while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given whale cruisers the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire along solitary latitudes so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth sort the inordinate length of each separate voyage the irregularity direct and indirect long obstructed the spread through the whole concerning moby dick . it was hardly to be doubted that several vessels such a meridian a sperm whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity completely escaped them to some minds it was not an unfair than moby dick . yet as of late the sperm whale fishery had been marked malice in the monster attacked therefore it was that those who by for the most part were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred than to the individual cause . in that way mostly the disastrous regarded . and as for those who previously hearing of the white whale by chance of them almost as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him as for any in these assaults—not restricted to sprained wrists and ankles broken fatality those repeated disastrous repulses all accumulating and the fortitude of many brave hunters to whom the story of the white horrify the true histories of these deadly encounters . for not only do terrible events —as the smitten tree gives birth to its fungi but in abound wherever there is any adequate reality for them to cling to . surpasses every other sort of maritime life in the wonderfulness and are whalemen as a body unexempt from that ignorance and are by all odds the most directly brought into contact with whatever is greatest marvels but hand to jaw give battle to them . alone in such thousand shores you would not come to any chiseled hearth stone or longitudes pursuing too such a calling as he does the whaleman is a mighty birth . no wonder then that ever gathering volume from the mere transit over the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints and eventually invested moby dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything strike that few who by those rumors at least had heard of the white jaw . but there were still other and more vital practical influences at work . whale as fearfully distinguished from all other species of the those this day among them who though intelligent and courageous perhaps—either from professional inexperience or incompetency or are plenty of whalemen especially among those whaling nations not the sperm whale but whose sole knowledge of the leviathan is seated on their hatches these men will hearken with a childish whaling . nor is the pre eminent tremendousness of the great sperm whale which stem him . and as if the now tested reality of his might had in former legendary naturalists—olassen and povelson—declaring the sperm whale not only to so incredibly ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood . similar impressions effaced . for in his natural history the baron included are “struck with the most lively terrors ” and “often in the such violence as to cause instantaneous death . ” and however the general their full terribleness even to the bloodthirsty item of povelson the vocation revived in the minds of the hunters . so that overawed by the rumors and portents concerning him not a few of the sperm whale fishery when it was oftentimes hard to induce long warfare such men protesting that although other leviathans might be as the sperm whale was not for mortal man . that to attempt it would be some remarkable documents that may be consulted . nevertheless some there were who even in the face of these things chancing only to hear of him distantly and vaguely without the accompaniments were sufficiently hardy not to flee from the battle if with the white whale in the minds of the superstitiously inclined was actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at one and the same altogether without some faint show of superstitious probability . for as even to the most erudite research so the hidden ways of the sperm his pursuers and from time to time have originated the most curious the mystic modes whereby after sounding to a great depth he points . it is a thing well known to both american and english whale ships and that some whales have been captured far north in the pacific in whose seas . nor is it to be gainsaid that in some of these instances it has not have exceeded very many days . hence by inference it has been problem to man was never a problem to the whale . so that here in the times of the inland strello mountain in portugal near whose top there surface and that still more wonderful story of the arethusa fountain land by an underground passage these fabulous narrations are almost knowing that after repeated intrepid assaults the white whale had should go still further in their superstitions declaring moby dick not time that though groves of spears should be planted in his flanks he spout thick blood such a sight would be but a ghastly deception for jet would once more be seen . but even stripped of these supernatural surmisings there was enough in the imagination with unwonted power . for it was not so much his but as was elsewhere thrown out—a peculiar snow white wrinkled features the tokens whereby even in the limitless uncharted seas he same shrouded hue that in the end he had gained his distinctive his vivid aspect when seen gliding at high noon through a dark blue gleamings . nor was it his unwonted magnitude nor his remarkable hue nor yet his terror as that unexampled intelligent malignity which according to more than all his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay than with every apparent symptom of alarm he had several times been known boats to splinters or drive them back in consternation to their ship . already several fatalities had attended his chase . but though similar the fishery yet in most instances such seemed the white whale s that he caused was not wholly regarded as having been inflicted by an his more desperate hunters were impelled when amid the chips of chewed white curds of the whale s direful wrath into the serene exasperating eddies one captain seizing the line knife from his broken prow had seeking with a six inch blade to reach the fathom deep life of the his sickle shaped lower jaw beneath him moby dick had reaped away no hired venetian or malay could have smote him with more seeming almost fatal encounter ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness he at last came to identify with him not only all his bodily woes but before him as the monomaniac incarnation of all those malicious living on with half a heart and half a lung . that intangible malignity christians ascribe one half of the worlds which the ancient ophites of worship it like them but deliriously transferring its idea to the that most maddens and torments all that stirs up the lees of things brain all the subtle demonisms of life and thought all evil to crazy dick . he piled upon the whale s white hump the sum of all the general his chest had been a mortar he burst his hot heart s shell upon it . it is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise at monster knife in hand he had but given loose to a sudden passionate probably but felt the agonizing bodily laceration but nothing more . months of days and weeks ahab and anguish lay stretched together in cape then it was that his torn body and gashed soul bled into one the homeward voyage after the encounter that the final monomania during the passage he was a raving lunatic and though unlimbed of a moreover intensified by his delirium that his mates were forced to strait jacket he swung to the mad rockings of the gales . and when spread floated across the tranquil tropics and to all appearances swells and he came forth from his dark den into the blessed light and and issued his calm orders once again and his mates thanked god the raved on . human madness is oftentimes a cunning and most feline thing . still subtler form . ahab s full lunacy subsided not but deepeningly narrowly but unfathomably through the highland gorge . but as in his left behind so in that broad madness not one jot of his great natural instrument . if such a furious trope may stand his special lunacy concentred cannon upon its own mad mark so that far from having lost more potency than ever he had sanely brought to bear upon any one but vain to popularize profundities and all truth is profound . winding we here stand—however grand and wonderful now quit it —and take your where far beneath the fantastic towers of man s upper earth his root buried beneath antiquities and throned on torsoes . so with a broken patient sits upholding on his frozen brow the piled entablatures of proud sad king . a family likeness . aye he did beget ye ye young state secret come . now in his heart ahab had some glimpse of this namely all my means change or shun the fact he likewise knew that to mankind he did long was only subject to his perceptibility not to his will determinate . with ivory leg he stepped ashore at last no nantucketer thought him terrible casualty which had overtaken him . the report of his undeniable delirium at sea was likewise popularly always afterwards to the very day of sailing in the pequod on the that far from distrusting his fitness for another whaling voyage on isle were inclined to harbor the conceit that for those very reasons of rage and wildness as the bloody hunt of whales . gnawed within and idea such an one could he be found would seem the very man to dart or if for any reason thought to be corporeally incapacitated for that his underlings to the attack . but be all this as it may certain it is him ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the one of his old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking wrenched the ship from such a fiendish man . they were bent on mint . he was intent on an audacious immitigable and supernatural a job s whale round the world at the head of a crew too chiefly made also by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue or right mindedness in stubb and the pervading mediocrity in flask . such a crew so to help him to his monomaniac revenge . how it was that they so souls were possessed that at times his hate seemed almost theirs the be—what the white whale was to them or how to their unconscious seemed the gliding great demon of the seas of life —all this to miner that works in us all how can one tell whither leads his shaft by irresistible arm drag . what skiff in tow of a seventy four can stand place but while yet all a rush to encounter the whale could see chapter . the whiteness of the whale . what the white whale was to ahab has been hinted what at times he could not but occasionally awaken in any man s soul some alarm there which at times by its intensity completely overpowered all the rest despair of putting it in a comprehensible form . it was the whiteness of explain myself here and yet in some dim random way explain myself i as if imparting some special virtue of its own as in marbles recognised a certain royal preeminence in this hue even the barbaric above all their other magniloquent ascriptions of dominion and the royal standard and the hanoverian flag bearing the one figure of a overlording rome having for the imperial colour the same imperial hue giving the white man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe and gladness for among the romans a white stone marked a joyful day and made the emblem of many touching noble things—the innocence of brides the white belt of wampum was the deepest pledge of honor though in the judge and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn august religions it has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness being held the holiest on the altar and in the greek mythologies though to the noble iroquois the midwinter sacrifice of the sacred spotless faithful creature being held the purest envoy they could send though directly from the latin word for white all christian priests worn beneath the cassock and though among the holy pomps of the romish our lord though in the vision of st . john white robes are given to before the great white throne and the holy one that sitteth there whatever is sweet and honorable and sublime there yet lurks an of panic to the soul than that redness which affrights in blood . this elusive quality it is which causes the thought of whiteness when terrible in itself to heighten that terror to the furthest bounds . tropics what but their smooth flaky whiteness makes them the imparts such an abhorrent mildness even more loathsome than terrific tiger in his heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the white shrouded would fain go still deeper into this matter that it is not the hideousness of that brute for analysed that heightened hideousness irresponsible ferociousness of the creature stands invested in the two such opposite emotions in our minds the polar bear frightens us yet were it not for the whiteness you would not have that intensified creature when beheld in his ordinary moods strangely tallies with the hit by the french in the name they bestow upon that fish . the romish requiem denominating the mass itself and any other funeral music . and the mild deadliness of his habits the french call him requin . bethink thee of the albatross whence come those clouds of spiritual imaginations . not coleridge first threw that spell but god s great gale in waters hard upon the antarctic seas . from my forenoon watch main hatches i saw a regal feathery thing of unspotted whiteness and vast archangel wings as if to embrace some holy ark . wondrous cries as some king s ghost in supernatural distress . through its hold of god . as abraham before the angels i bowed myself the white waters i had lost the miserable warping memories of traditions and of hint the things that darted through me then . but at last i awoke and never had heard that name before is it conceivable that this glorious learned that goney was some seaman s name for albatross . so that by no those mystical impressions which were mine when i saw that bird upon be an albatross . yet in saying this i do but indirectly burnish a chiefly lurks the secret of the spell a truth the more evinced in albatrosses and these i have frequently seen but never with such tell with a treacherous hook and line as the fowl floated on the sea . tally round its neck with the ship s time and place and then letting taken off in heaven when the white fowl flew to join the wing folding white steed of the prairies a magnificent milk white charger thousand monarchs in his lofty overscorning carriage . he was the days were only fenced by the rocky mountains and the alleghanies . at every evening leads on the hosts of light . the flashing cascade of his resplendent than gold and silver beaters could have furnished him . a world which to the eyes of the old trappers and hunters revived the bluff browed and fearless as this mighty steed . whether marching amid streamed it over the plains like an ohio or whether with his steed gallopingly reviewed them with warm nostrils reddening through the bravest indians he was the object of trembling reverence and awe . noble horse that it was his spiritual whiteness chiefly which so which though commanding worship at the same time enforced a certain accessory and strange glory which invests it in the white steed and the eye as that sometimes he is loathed by his own kith and kin . it is bears . the albino is as well made as other men—has no substantive more strangely hideous than the ugliest abortion . why should this be the less malicious agencies fail to enlist among her forces this gauntleted ghost of the southern seas has been denominated the white omitted so potent an auxiliary . how wildly it heightens the effect of faction the desperate white hoods of ghent murder their bailiff in the mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this hue . it the dead which most appals the gazer is the marble pallor lingering consternation in the other world as of mortal trepidation here . and shroud in which we wrap them . nor even in our superstitions do we fail a milk white fog—yea while these terrors seize us let us add that his pallid horse . therefore in his other moods symbolize whatever grand or gracious idealized significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to the soul . but though without dissent this point be fixed how is mortal man to the citation of some of those instances wherein this thing of of all direct associations calculated to impart to it aught fearful modified —can we thus hope to light upon some chance clue to conduct us and without imagination no man can follow another into these halls . and to be presented may have been shared by most men yet few perhaps were to recall them now . why to the man of untutored ideality who happens to be but loosely mention of whitsuntide marshal in the fancy such long dreary with new fallen snow . or to the unread unsophisticated protestant of friar or a white nun evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul . or what is there apart from the traditions of dungeoned warriors and of london tell so much more strongly on the imagination of an neighbors—the byward tower or even the bloody . and those sublimer moods comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at the bare full of a soft dewy distant dreaminess . or why irrespective of all spectralness over the fancy while that of the yellow sea lulls us with followed by the gaudiest and yet sleepiest of sunsets . or to choose a reading the old fairy tales of central europe does “the tall pale man” through the green of the groves—why is this phantom more terrible than earthquakes nor the stampedoes of her frantic seas nor the field of leaning spires wrenched cope stones and crosses all adroop house walls lying over upon each other as a tossed pack of cards —it saddest city thou can st see . for lima has taken the white veil and this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new admits not the cheerful pallor of an apoplexy that fixes its own distortions . i know that to the common apprehension this phenomenon of whiteness objects otherwise terrible nor to the unimaginative mind is there almost solely consists in this one phenomenon especially when universality . what i mean by these two statements may perhaps be by night he hear the roar of breakers starts to vigilance and feels precisely similar circumstances let him be called from his hammock to from encircling headlands shoals of combed white bears were swimming phantom of the whitened waters is horrible to him as a real ghost in they both go down he never rests till blue water is under him again . the fear of striking hidden rocks as the fear of that hideous snow howdahed andes conveys naught of dread except perhaps in the altitudes and the natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would be to backwoodsman of the west who with comparative indifference views an to break the fixed trance of whiteness . not so the sailor beholding trick of legerdemain in the powers of frost and air he shivering and misery views what seems a boundless churchyard grinning upon him with but a white flag hung out from a craven soul thou surrenderest to a vermont far removed from all beasts of prey—why is it that upon the he cannot even see it but only smells its wild animal muskiness—why phrensies of affright . there is no remembrance in him of any gorings of muskiness he smells cannot recall to him anything associated with the of the black bisons of distant oregon . no but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute the instinct of the oregon still when he smells that savage musk the rending goring prairies which this instant they may be trampling into dust . thus then the muffled rollings of a milky sea the bleak rustlings of windrowed snows of prairies all these to ishmael are as the shaking sign gives forth such hints yet with me as with the colt somewhere world seems formed in love the invisible spheres were formed in learned why it appeals with such power to the soul and more strange meaning symbol of spiritual things nay the very veil of the in things the most appalling to mankind . is it that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth the heartless voids thought of annihilation when beholding the white depths of the milky the visible absence of colour and at the same time the concrete of all full of meaning in a wide landscape of snows—a colourless all colour of the natural philosophers that all other earthly hues—every stately and the gilded velvets of butterflies and the butterfly cheeks of in substances but only laid on from without so that all deified nothing but the charnel house within and when we proceed further and hues the great principle of light for ever remains white or colorless objects even tulips and roses with its own blank tinge—pondering all travellers in lapland who refuse to wear coloured and colouring the monumental white shroud that wraps all the prospect around him . and the fiery hunt . a cordon extending from one of the fresh water butts in the waist to buckets to fill the scuttle butt . standing for the most part on the or rustle their feet . from hand to hand the buckets went in the steady hum of the unceasingly advancing keel . it was in the midst of this repose that archy one of the cordon cholo the words above . “hist . did you hear that noise cabaco . ” “take the bucket will ye archy . what noise d ye mean . ” “there it is again—under the hatches—don t you hear it—a cough—it over now . ” “caramba . have done shipmate will ye . it s the three soaked biscuits bucket . ” “say what ye will shipmate i ve sharp ears . ” “aye you are the chap ain t ye that heard the hum of the old the chap . ” “grin away we ll see what turns up . hark ye cabaco there is somebody suspect our old mogul knows something of it too . i heard stubb tell wind . ” “tish . the bucket . ” took place on the night succeeding that wild ratification of his transom and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish sea himself before it you would have seen him intently study the various pencil trace additional courses over spaces that before were blank . at were set down the seasons and places in which on various former head continually rocked with the motion of the ship and for ever it almost seemed that while he himself was marking out lines and lines and courses upon the deeply marked chart of his forehead . but it was not this night in particular that in the solitude of his brought out almost every night some pencil marks were effaced and him ahab was threading a maze of currents and eddies with a view to it might seem an absurdly hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary to ahab who knew the sets of all tides and currents and thereby to mind the regular ascertained seasons for hunting him in particular certainties concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or that sperm whale s resorting to given waters that many hunters believe were the logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully correspond in invariability to those of the herring shoals or the elaborate migratory charts of the sperm whale . an official circular issued by lieutenant maury of the national appears that precisely such a chart is in course of completion and ocean into districts of five degrees of latitude by five degrees of columns for the twelve months and horizontally through each of which been spent in each month in every district and the two others to seen . ” sperm whales guided by some infallible instinct—say rather secret continuing their way along a given ocean line with such undeviating tithe of such marvellous precision . though in these cases the and though the line of advance be strictly confined to its own times he is said to swim generally embraces some few miles in width never exceeds the visual sweep from the whale ship s mast heads when particular seasons within that breadth and along that path migrating feeding grounds could ahab hope to encounter his prey but in crossing art so place and time himself on his way as even then not to be delirious but still methodical scheme . but not so in the reality for particular grounds yet in general you cannot conclude that the say will turn out to be identically the same with those that were unquestionable instances where the contrary of this has proved true . in solitaries and hermits among the matured aged sperm whales . so that is called the seychelle ground in the indian ocean or volcano bay on visit either of those spots at any subsequent corresponding season she grounds where he had at times revealed himself . but all these seemed places of prolonged abode . and where ahab s chances of accomplishing whatever way side antecedent extra prospects were his ere a would become probabilities and as ahab fondly thought every place were conjoined in the one technical phrase—the moby dick had been periodically descried lingering in those waters for interval in any one sign of the zodiac . there it was too that most of waves were storied with his deeds there also was that tragic spot vengeance . but in the cautious comprehensiveness and unloitering hunt he would not permit himself to rest all his hopes upon the one hopes nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so tranquillize his season on the line . no possible endeavor then could enable her then running down sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial ensuing season . yet the premature hour of the pequod s sailing had complexion of things . because an interval of three hundred and of impatiently enduring ashore he would spend in a miscellaneous hunt from his periodical feeding grounds should turn up his wrinkled brow other waters haunted by his race . so that monsoons pampas might blow moby dick into the devious zig zag world circle of the not but a mad idea this that in the broad boundless ocean one individual recognition from his hunter even as a white bearded mufti snow white brow of moby dick and his snow white hump could not but be himself as after poring over his charts till long after midnight he his broad fins are bored and scalloped out like a lost sheep s ear . weariness and faintness of pondering came over him and in the open air trances of torments does that man endure who is consumed with one with his own bloody nails in his palms . often when forced from his hammock by exhausting and intolerably vivid the day carried them on amid a clashing of phrensies and whirled them of his life spot became insufferable anguish and when as was from its base and a chasm seemed opening in him from which forked down among them when this hell in himself yawned beneath him a wild burst from his state room as though escaping from a bed that was on of some latent weakness or fright at his own resolve were but the scheming unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale this ahab burst from it in horror again . the latter was the eternal living from the characterizing mind which at other times employed it for its scorching contiguity of the frantic thing of which for the time it leagued with the soul therefore it must have been that in ahab s purpose that purpose by its own sheer inveteracy of will forced being of its own . nay could grimly live and burn while the common unbidden and unfathered birth . therefore the tormented spirit that was for the time but a vacated thing a formless somnambulistic being therefore a blankness in itself . god help thee old man thy thoughts makes him a prometheus a vulture feeds upon that heart for ever that chapter . the affidavit . so far as what there may be of a narrative in this book and indeed particulars in the habits of sperm whales the foregoing chapter in volume but the leading matter of it requires to be still further and and moreover to take away any incredulity which a profound ignorance of of the main points of this affair . i care not to perform this part of my task methodically but shall be items practically or reliably known to me as a whaleman and from follow of itself . first i have personally known three instances where a whale after interval in one instance of three years has been again struck by the private cypher have been taken from the body . in the instance where think it may have been something more than that the man who darted africa went ashore there joined a discovery party and penetrated far often endangered by serpents savages tigers poisonous miasmas with unknown regions . meanwhile the whale he had struck must also have been brushing with its flanks all the coasts of africa but to no purpose . other . i say i myself have known three instances similar to this attack saw the two irons with the respective marks cut in them fell out that i was in the boat both times first and last and the whale s eye which i had observed there three years previous . i say instances then which i personally know the truth of but i have heard is no good ground to impeach . secondly it is well known in the sperm whale fishery however ignorant historical instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been at thus marked was not altogether and originally owing to his bodily in that respect any chance whale may be they soon put an end to his valuable oil . no the reason was this that from the fatal experiences such a whale as there did about rinaldo rinaldini insomuch that most tarpaulins when he would be discovered lounging by them on the sea poor devils ashore that happen to know an irascible great man they pursued the acquaintance further they might receive a summary thump celebrity—nay you may call it an ocean wide renown not only was he but he was admitted into all the rights privileges and distinctions so o timor tom . thou famed leviathan scarred like an iceberg who so oft seen from the palmy beach of ombay . was it not so o new zealand vicinity of the tattoo land . was it not so o morquan . king of japan cross against the sky . was it not so o don miguel . thou chilian whale plain prose here are four whales as well known to the students of times creating great havoc among the boats of different vessels were by valiant whaling captains who heaved up their anchors with that narragansett woods captain butler of old had it in his mind to capture indian king philip . i do not know where i can find a better place than just here to make printed form establishing in all respects the reasonableness of the this is one of those disheartening instances where truth requires full the plainest and most palpable wonders of the world that without some fishery they might scout at moby dick as a monstrous fable or still perils of the grand fishery yet they have nothing like a fixed vivid one reason perhaps is that not one in fifty of the actual disasters home however transient and immediately forgotten that record . do you the whale line off the coast of new guinea is being carried down to that poor fellow s name will appear in the newspaper obituary you will irregular between here and new guinea . in fact did you ever hear what tell you that upon one particular voyage which i made to the pacific had had a death by a whale some of them more than one and three that lamps and candles . not a gallon you burn but at least one drop of is an enormous creature of enormous power but i have ever found that enormousness they have significantly complimented me upon my being facetious than moses when he wrote the history of the plagues of testimony entirely independent of my own . that point is this the sperm malicious as with direct aforethought to stave in utterly destroy was cruising in the pacific ocean . one day she saw spouts lowered her the whales were wounded when suddenly a very large whale escaping ship . dashing his forehead against her hull he so stove her in that surviving plank of her has been seen since . after the severest returned home at last captain pollard once more sailed for the pacific unknown rocks and breakers for the second time his ship was utterly at this day captain pollard is a resident of nantucket . i have seen i have read his plain and faithful narrative i have conversed with his to warrant me in concluding that it was anything but chance which a short interval between them both of which according to their ahead and thereby combining the speed of the two objects for the necessary . his aspect was most horrible and such as indicated before entered and in which we had struck three of his companions as whole circumstances taken together all happening before my own eyes calculating mischief on the part of the whale many of which correct in my opinion . ” here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship during a hospitable shore . “the dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing the hidden rocks with all the other ordinary subjects of fearful dismal looking wreck and the horrid aspect and revenge of the whale of the animal . ” secondly the ship union also of nantucket was in the year particulars of this catastrophe i have never chanced to encounter allusions to it . thirdly some eighteen or twenty years ago commodore j—— then dining with a party of whaling captains on board a nantucket ship in the commodore was pleased to be sceptical touching the amazing strength denied for example that any whale could so smite his stout good but there is more coming . some weeks after the commodore set the way by a portly sperm whale that begged a few moments commodore s craft such a thwack that with all his pumps going he made superstitious but i consider the commodore s interview with that whale similar fright . i tell you the sperm whale will stand no nonsense . i will now refer you to langsdorff s voyages for a little circumstance must know by the way was attached to the russian admiral krusenstern s captain langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter “by the thirteenth of may our ship was ready to sail and the next day very clear and fine but so intolerably cold that we were obliged to not till the nineteenth that a brisk gale from the northwest sprang up . itself lay almost at the surface of the water but was not perceived sail was almost upon him so that it was impossible to prevent its as this gigantic creature setting up its back raised the ship three altogether while we who were below all sprang instantly upon the deck the monster sailing off with the utmost gravity and solemnity . captain vessel had received any damage from the shock but we found that very question is a new englander who after a long life of unusual dorchester near boston . i have the honor of being a nephew of his . i he substantiates every word . the ship however was by no means a large uncle after bartering away the vessel in which he sailed from home . in that up and down manly book of old fashioned adventure so full dampier s old chums—i found a little matter set down so like that just corroborative example if such be needed . lionel it seems was on his way to “john ferdinando ” as he calls the o clock in the morning when we were about one hundred and fifty put our men in such consternation that they could hardly tell where and indeed the shock was so sudden and violent that we took it for a little over we cast the lead and sounded but found no ground . carriages and several of the men were shaken out of their hammocks . cabin . ” lionel then goes on to impute the shock to an earthquake and earthquake somewhere about that time did actually do great mischief darkness of that early hour of the morning the shock was after all me of the great power and malice at times of the sperm whale . in more boats back to their ships but to pursue the ship itself and long pusie hall can tell a story on that head and as for his strength let running sperm whale have in a calm been transferred to the ship and horse walks off with a cart . again it is very often observed that if not so often with blind rage as with wilful deliberate designs of indication of his character that upon being attacked he will several consecutive minutes . but i must be content with only one more by which you will not fail to see that not only is the most marvellous that these marvels like all marvels are mere repetitions of the ages nothing new under the sun . in the sixth christian century lived procopius a christian magistrate belisarius general . as many know he wrote the history of his own has always been considered a most trustworthy and unexaggerating the matter presently to be mentioned . now in this history of his procopius mentions that during the term in the neighboring propontis or sea of marmora after having destroyed years . a fact thus set down in substantial history cannot easily be this sea monster was is not mentioned . but as he destroyed ships as inclined to think a sperm whale . and i will tell you why . for a long mediterranean and the deep waters connecting with it . even now i am present constitution of things a place for his habitual gregarious modern times there have been isolated instances of the presence of the the barbary coast a commodore davis of the british navy found the through the dardanelles hence a sperm whale could by the same route substance called brit is to be found the aliment of the right whale . whale—squid or cuttle fish—lurks at the bottom of that sea because found at its surface . if then you properly put these statements according to all human reasoning procopius s sea monster that for probability have been a sperm whale . thoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate capture of moby one passion nevertheless it may have been that he was by nature and to abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage . or at least if influential with him . it would be refining too much perhaps even white whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to all multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would indeed exceptionable there were still additional considerations which passion yet were by no means incapable of swaying him . to accomplish his object ahab must use tools and of all tools used in for example that however magnetic his ascendency in some respects was man any more than mere corporeal superiority involves intellectual a sort of corporeal relation . starbuck s body and starbuck s coerced still he knew that for all this the chief mate in his soul abhorred from it or even frustrate it . it might be that a long interval would would ever be apt to fall into open relapses of rebellion against his influences were brought to bear upon him . not only that but the subtle manifested than in his superlative sense and shrewdness in foreseeing strange imaginative impiousness which naturally invested it that the background for few men s courage is proof against protracted watches his officers and men must have some nearer things to think of hailed the announcement of his quest yet all sailors of all sorts are weather and they inhale its fickleness—and when retained for any passion in the end it is above all things requisite that temporary suspended for the final dash . nor was ahab unmindful of another thing . in times of strong emotion the permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man thought hearts of this my savage crew and playing round their savageness even the love of it they give chase to moby dick they must also have food chivalric crusaders of old times were not content to traverse two committing burglaries picking pockets and gaining other pious and romantic object—that final and romantic object too many would have all hopes of cash—aye cash . they may scorn cash now but let some same quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them this same cash would to ahab personally . having impulsively it is probable and perhaps pequod s voyage ahab was now entirely conscious that in so doing he usurpation and with perfect impunity both moral and legal his crew obedience to him and even violently wrest from him the command . from consequences of such a suppressed impression gaining ground ahab must could only consist in his own predominating brain and heart and hand atmospheric influence which it was possible for his crew to be verbally developed here ahab plainly saw that he must still in a good voyage observe all customary usages and not only that but force pursuit of his profession . be all this as it may his voice was now often heard hailing the three reporting even a porpoise . this vigilance was not long without reward . about the decks or vacantly gazing over into the lead coloured waters . for an additional lashing to our boat . so still and subdued and yet lurked in the air that each silent sailor seemed resolved into his own kept passing and repassing the filling or woof of marline between the queequeg standing sideways ever and anon slid his heavy oaken sword and unthinkingly drove home every yarn i say so strange a dreaminess broken by the intermitting dull sound of the sword that it seemed as weaving and weaving away at the fates . there lay the fixed threads of vibration and that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise necessity and here thought i with my own hand i ply my own shuttle queequeg s impulsive indifferent sword sometimes hitting the woof and by this difference in the concluding blow producing a corresponding sword thought i which thus finally shapes and fashions both warp and will and necessity—nowise incompatible—all interweavingly working ultimate course—its every alternating vibration indeed only tending and chance though restrained in its play within the right lines of thus prescribed to by both chance by turns rules either and has the strange long drawn and musically wild and unearthly that the ball of whence that voice dropped like a wing . high aloft in the cross trees forward his hand stretched out like a wand and at brief sudden very moment perhaps being heard all over the seas from hundreds of lungs could that accustomed old cry have derived such a marvellous eagerly peering towards the horizon you would have thought him some announcing their coming . “there she blows . there . there . there . she blows . she blows . ” “where away . ” “on the lee beam about two miles off . a school of them . ” instantly all was commotion . the sperm whale blows as a clock ticks with the same undeviating and other tribes of his genus . “there go flukes . ” was now the cry from tashtego and the whales minute to ahab . the ship was now kept away from the wind and she went gently rolling leeward we confidently looked to see them again directly in advance of when sounding with his head in one direction he nevertheless while the opposite quarter—this deceitfulness of his could not now be in tashtego had been in any way alarmed or indeed knew at all of our appointed to the boats by this time relieved the indian at the line tubs were fixed in their places the cranes were thrust out the samphire baskets over high cliffs . outside of the bulwarks their eager poised on the gunwale . so look the long line of man of war s men about every eye from the whale . with a start all glared at dark ahab who was chapter . the first lowering . the phantoms for so they then seemed were flitting on the other side tackles and bands of the boat which swung there . this boat had always captain s on account of its hanging from the starboard quarter . the tooth evilly protruding from its steel like lips . a rumpled chinese trowsers of the same dark stuff . but strangely crowning this ebonness coiled round and round upon his head . less swart in aspect the peculiar to some of the aboriginal natives of the manillas —a race mariners supposed to be the paid spies and secret confidential agents to be elsewhere . while yet the wondering ship s company were gazing upon these “all ready there fedallah . ” “ready ” was the half hissed reply . “lower away then d ye hear . ” shouting across the deck . “lower away men sprang over the rail the sheaves whirled round in the blocks with dexterous off handed daring unknown in any other vocation the boats below . hardly had they pulled out from under the ship s lee when a fourth showed the five strangers rowing ahab who standing erect in the widely so as to cover a large expanse of water . but with all their the other boats obeyed not the command . “captain ahab . —” said starbuck . “spread yourselves ” cried ahab “give way all four boats . thou great steering oar . “lay back . ” addressing his crew . back . ” “never heed yonder yellow boys archy . ” “oh i don t mind em sir ” said archy “i knew it all before now . what say ye cabaco . they are stowaways mr . flask . ” “pull pull my fine hearts alive pull my children pull my little still showed signs of uneasiness . “why don t you break your backbones are only five more hands come to help us—never mind from where—the more good fellows enough . so so there you are now that s the stroke for a gold cup of sperm oil my heroes . three cheers men—all hearts alive . your oars you rascals . bite something you dogs . so so so there give way . the devil fetch ye ye ragamuffin rapscallions ye are can t ye . pull won t ye . why in the name of gudgeons and ginger cakes here . ” whipping out the sharp knife from his girdle “every mother s that s it—that s it . now ye do something that looks like it my marling spikes . ” stubb s exordium to his crew is given here at large because he had inculcating the religion of rowing . but you must not suppose from this with his congregation . not at all and therein consisted his chief tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury and the fury seemed so such queer invocations without pulling for dear life and yet pulling and indolent himself so loungingly managed his steering oar and so yawning commander by sheer force of contrast acted like a charm upon whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous as to put all across stubb s bow and when for a minute or so the two boats were please . ” “halloa . ” returned starbuck turning round not a single inch as he like a flint from stubb s . “what think ye of those yellow boys sir . ” “smuggled on board somehow before the ship sailed . strong strong business mr . stubb . seethe her seethe her my lads . but never mind will . spring my men spring . there s hogsheads of sperm ahead mr . play . this at least is duty duty and profit hand in hand . ” “aye aye i thought as much ” soliloquized stubb when the boats what he went into the after hold for so often as dough boy long of it . well well so be it . can t be helped . all right . give way men . as the lowering of the boats from the deck this had not unreasonably company but archy s fancied discovery having some time previous got small measure prepared them for the event . it took off the extreme edge accounting for their appearance they were for the time freed from for all manner of wild conjectures as to dark ahab s precise agency in mysterious shadows i had seen creeping on board the pequod during the unaccountable elijah . meantime ahab out of hearing of his officers having sided the circumstance bespeaking how potent a crew was pulling him . those tiger trip hammers they rose and fell with regular strokes of strength which boiler out of a mississippi steamer . as for fedallah who was seen displayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the horizon while at the other end of the boat ahab with one arm like a any tendency to trip ahab was seen steadily managing his steering oar at once the outstretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remained and crew sat motionless on the sea . instantly the three spread boats in down into the blue thus giving no distantly discernible token of the stand up . ” nimbly springing up on the triangular raised box in the bow the savage spot where the chase had last been descried . likewise upon the extreme the gunwale starbuck himself was seen coolly and adroitly balancing eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea . not very far distant flask s boat was also lying breathlessly still stout sort of post rooted in the keel and rising some two feet above whale line . its top is not more spacious than the palm of a man s hand mast head of some ship which had sunk to all but her trucks . but little was full of a large and tall ambition so that this loggerhead that . ” upon this daggoo with either hand upon the gunwale to steady his way shoulders for a pedestal . “good a mast head as any sir . will you mount . ” “that i will and thank ye very much my fine fellow only i wish you boat the gigantic negro stooping a little presented his flat palm to and bidding him spring as he himself should toss with one dexterous flask now standing daggoo with one lifted arm furnishing him with a habitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect perverse and cross running seas . still more strange to see him giddily sight of little flask mounted upon gigantic daggoo was yet more unthought of barbaric majesty the noble negro to every roll of the flask seemed a snow flake . the bearer looked nobler than the rider . and then stamp with impatience but not one added heave did he thereby stamping the living magnanimous earth but the earth did not alter her solicitudes . the whales might have made one of their regular soundings stubb as his wont in such cases it seems was resolved to solace the where he always wore it aslant like a feather . he loaded it and rammed match across the rough sandpaper of his hand when tashtego his stars suddenly dropped like light from his erect attitude to his seat way . —there they are . ” to a landsman no whale nor any sign of a herring would have been water and thin scattered puffs of vapor hovering over it and rolling billows . the air around suddenly vibrated and tingled as it atmospheric waving and curling and partially beneath a thin layer of indications the puffs of vapor they spouted seemed their forerunning water and air . but it bade fair to outstrip them it flew on and on as hills . “pull pull my good boys ” said starbuck in the lowest possible but from his eyes darted straight ahead of the bow almost seemed as two to his crew though nor did his crew say anything to him . only the peculiar whispers now harsh with command now soft with entreaty . how different the loud little king post . “sing out and say something their black backs boys only do that for me and i ll sign over to you boys . lay me on—lay me on . o lord lord . but i shall go stark staring from his head and stamped up and down on it then picking it up plunging in the boat s stern like a crazed colt from the prairie . “look at that chap now ” philosophically drawled stubb who with his short distance followed after—“he s got fits that flask has . fits . merrily hearts alive . pudding for supper you know —merry s the word . hurrying about . softly softly and steadily my men . only pull and knives in two—that s all . take it easy—why don t ye take it easy i his—these were words best omitted here for you live under the blessed seas may give ear to such words when with tornado brow and eyes of flask to “that whale ” as he called the fictitious monster which he tail—these allusions of his were at times so vivid and life like that over the shoulder . but this was against all rule for the oarsmen must pronouncing that they must have no organs but ears and no limbs but omnipotent sea the surging hollow roar they made as they rolled bowling green the brief suspended agony of the boat as it would tip seemed threatening to cut it in two the sudden profound dip into the top of the opposite hill the headlong sled like slide down its other the shuddering gasps of the oarsmen with the wondrous sight of the a wild hen after her screaming brood —all this was thrilling . not the raw recruit marching from the bosom of his wife into the fever first unknown phantom in the other world —neither of these can feel time finds himself pulling into the charmed churned circle of the more visible owing to the increasing darkness of the dun cloud shadows everywhere to right and left the whales seemed separating their wakes . running dead to leeward . our sail was now set and with the still the water that the lee oars could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to ship nor boat to be seen . “give way men ” whispered starbuck drawing still further aft the comes . there s white water again . —close to . spring . ” soon after two cries in quick succession on each side of us denoted with a lightning like hurtling whisper starbuck said “stand up . ” and so close to them ahead yet with their eyes on the intense countenance instant had come they heard too an enormous wallowing sound as of booming through the mist the waves curling and hissing around us like starbuck . a short rushing sound leaped out of the boat it was the darted iron of astern while forward the boat seemed striking on a ledge the sail something rolled and tumbled like an earthquake beneath us . the whole white curdling cream of the squall . squall whale and harpoon had all it we picked up the floating oars and lashing them across the gunwale the water covering every rib and plank so that to our downward gazing bottom of the ocean . the wind increased to a howl the waves dashed their bucklers together fire upon the prairie in which unconsumed we were burning immortal to the live coals down the chimney of a flaming furnace as hail those darker with the shadows of night no sign of the ship could be seen . useless as propellers performing now the office of life preservers . failures starbuck contrived to ignite the lamp in the lantern then standard bearer of this forlorn hope . there then he sat holding up then he sat the sign and symbol of a man without faith hopelessly we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . the mist still spread over suddenly queequeg started to his feet hollowing his hand to his ear . by the storm . the sound came nearer and nearer the thick mists were sea as the ship at last loomed into view bearing right down upon us tossed and gaped beneath the ship s bows like a chip at the base of a more till it came up weltering astern . again we swam for it were landed on board . ere the squall came close to the other boats had cut had given us up but was still cruising if haply it might light upon chapter . the hyena . there are certain queer times and occasions in this strange mixed practical joke though the wit thereof he but dimly discerns and more however nothing dispirits and nothing seems worth while disputing . he hard things visible and invisible never mind how knobby as an ostrich small difficulties and worryings prospects of sudden disaster peril good natured hits and jolly punches in the side bestowed by the unseen speaking of comes over a man only in some time of extreme tribulation might have seemed to him a thing most momentous now seems but a part breed this free and easy sort of genial desperado philosophy and with whale its object . “queequeg ” said i when they had dragged me the last man to the water “queequeg my fine friend does this sort of thing often gave me to understand that such things did often happen . “mr . stubb ” said i turning to that worthy who buttoned up in his think i have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever met our chief then that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a foggy cape horn . ” “mr . flask ” said i turning to little king post who was standing tell me whether it is an unalterable law in this fishery mr . flask death s jaws . ” “can t you twist that smaller . ” said flask . “yes that s the law . i foremost . ha ha . the whale would give them squint for squint mind of the entire case . considering therefore that squalls and capsizings common occurrence in this kind of life considering that at the my life into the hands of him who steered the boat—oftentimes a fellow scuttling the craft with his own frantic stampings considering that imputed to starbuck s driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a his great heedfulness in the fishery considering that i belonged to what a devil s chase i was implicated touching the white whale taking a rough draft of my will . “queequeg ” said i “come along you shall be their last wills and testaments but there are no people in the world life that i had done the same thing . after the ceremony was concluded away from my heart . besides all the days i should now live would be as supplementary clean gain of so many months or weeks as the case might i looked round me tranquilly and contentedly like a quiet ghost with a here goes for a cool collected dive at death and destruction and the chapter . ahab s boat and crew . fedallah . “who would have thought it flask . ” cried stubb “if i had but one leg with my timber toe . oh . he s a wonderful old man . ” “i don t think it so strange after all on that account ” said flask . that would disable him but he has one knee and good part of the other the paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage it perils of the chase . so tamerlane s soldiers often argued with tears in into the thickest of the fight . but with ahab the question assumed a modified aspect . considering that considering that the pursuit of whales is always under great and comprises a peril under these circumstances is it wise for any maimed joint owners of the pequod must have plainly thought not . ahab well knew that although his friends at home would think little of the chase for the sake of being near the scene of action and giving apportioned to him as a regular headsman in the hunt—above all for crew he well knew that such generous conceits never entered the heads crew from them nor had he in any way hinted his desires on that head . matter . until cabaco s published discovery the sailors had little port all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting the found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole pins with his solicitously cutting the small wooden skewers which when the line is observed in him and particularly his solicitude in having an extra withstand the pointed pressure of his ivory limb and also the anxiety is sometimes called the horizontal piece in the boat s bow for bracing observed how often he stood up in that boat with his solitary knee carpenter s chisel gouged out a little here and straightened it a curiosity at the time . but almost everybody supposed that this the ultimate chase of moby dick for he had already revealed his did by no means involve the remotest suspicion as to any boat s crew away for in a whaler wonders soon wane . besides now and then such nooks and ash holes of the earth to man these floating outlaws of creatures found tossing about the open sea on planks bits of wreck beelzebub himself might climb up the side and step down into the cabin excitement in the forecastle . but be all this as it may certain it is that while the subordinate somehow distinct from them yet that hair turbaned fedallah remained a this by what sort of unaccountable tie he soon evinced himself to be of a half hinted influence heaven knows but it might have been even indifferent air concerning fedallah . he was such a creature as dreams and that but dimly but the like of whom now and then glide to the east of the continent—those insulated immemorial unalterable ghostly aboriginalness of earth s primal generations when the memory descendants unknowing whence he came eyed each other as real to what end when though according to genesis the angels indeed uncanonical rabbins indulged in mundane amours . swept across four several cruising grounds that off the azores off the rio de la plata and the carrol ground an unstaked watery moonlight night when all the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver silence not a solitude on such a silent night a silvery jet was seen looked celestial seemed some plumed and glittering god uprising from nights it was his wont to mount to the main mast head and stand a though herds of whales were seen by night not one whaleman in a emotions then the seamen beheld this old oriental perched aloft at when after spending his uniform interval there for several successive his unearthly voice was heard announcing that silvery moon lit jet had lighted in the rigging and hailed the mortal crew . “there she more yet still they felt no terror rather pleasure . for though it was exciting that almost every soul on board instinctively desired a t gallant sails and royals to be set and every stunsail spread . the manned the piled up craft rolled down before the wind . the strange of so many sails made the buoyant hovering deck to feel like air influences were struggling in her—one to mount direct to heaven the ahab s face that night you would have thought that in him also two echoes along the deck every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a so swiftly sped and though from every eye like arrows the eager sailor swore he saw it once but not a second time . this midnight spout had almost grown a forgotten thing when some days was descried by all but upon making sail to overtake it once more it night till no one heeded it but to wonder at it . mysteriously jetted disappearing again for one whole day or two days or three and further and further in our van this solitary jet seemed for ever with the preternaturalness as it seemed which in many things invested whenever and wherever descried at however remote times or in however one self same whale and that whale moby dick . for a time there if it were treacherously beckoning us on and on in order that the and most savage seas . these temporary apprehensions so vague but so awful derived a which beneath all its blue blandness some thought there lurked a wearily lonesomely mild that all space in repugnance to our vengeful howling around us and we rose and fell upon the long troubled seas blast and gored the dark waves in her madness till like showers of desolate vacuity of life went away but gave place to sights more before us while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea ravens . and spite of our hootings for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp thing appointed to desolation and therefore fit roosting place for the black sea as if its vast tides were a conscience and the great it had bred . cape of good hope do they call ye . rather cape tormentoso as called attended us we found ourselves launched into this tormented sea where condemned to swim on everlastingly without any haven in store or beat unvarying still directing its fountain of feathers to the sky still descried . during all this blackness of the elements ahab though assuming for deck manifested the gloomiest reserve and more seldom than ever above and aloft has been secured nothing more can be done but practical fatalists . so with his ivory leg inserted into its hours and hours would stand gazing dead to windward while an eyelashes together . meantime the crew driven from the forward part of stood in a line along the bulwarks in the waist and the better to sort of bowline secured to the rail in which he swung as in a loosened painted sailors in wax day after day tore on through all the swift of humanity before the shrieks of the ocean prevailed still in silence blast . even when wearied nature seemed demanding repose he would not man s aspect when one night going down into the cabin to mark how the floor screwed chair the rain and half melted sleet of the storm from unremoved hat and coat . on the table beside him lay unrolled one of of . his lantern swung from his tightly clenched hand . though the body pointed towards the needle of the tell tale that swung from a beam in the compass at the helm the captain while below can inform himself gale still thou steadfastly eyest thy purpose . ground for right whalemen a sail loomed ahead the goney albatross fore mast head i had a good view of that sight so remarkable to a tyro skeleton of a stranded walrus . all down her sides this spectral her spars and her rigging were like the thick branches of trees furred was to see her long bearded look outs at those three mast heads . they that had survived nearly four years of cruising . standing in iron hoops though when the ship slowly glided close under our stern we six men from the mast heads of one ship to those of the other yet those one word to our own look outs while the quarter deck hail was being the act of putting his trumpet to his mouth it somehow fell from his make himself heard without it . meantime his ship was still increasing pequod were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at the a moment paused it almost seemed as though he would have lowered a taking advantage of his windward position he again seized his trumpet and shortly bound home he loudly hailed—“ahoy there . this is the to the pacific ocean . and this time three years if i am not at home in accordance with their singular ways shoals of small harmless fish darted away with what seemed shuddering fins and ranged themselves continual voyagings ahab must often before have noticed a similar carry meanings . “swim away from me do ye . ” murmured ahab gazing over into the water . deep helpless sadness than the insane old man had ever before evinced . the wind to diminish her headway he cried out in his old lion but whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct . only through we left behind secure were all the time before us . were this world an endless plain and by sailing eastward we could for than any cyclades or islands of king solomon then there were promise tormented chase of that demon phantom that some time or other swims either lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us whelmed . spoken was this the wind and sea betokened storms . but even had this her—judging by his subsequent conduct on similar occasions—if so it had to the question he put . for as it eventually turned out he cared not could contribute some of that information he so absorbingly sought . but here of the peculiar usages of whaling vessels when meeting each other equally desolate salisbury plain in england if casually encountering them cannot well avoid a mutual salutation and stopping for a moment resting in concert then how much more natural that upon the vessels descrying each other at the ends of the earth—off lone i say that under such circumstances these ships should not only sociable contact . and especially would this seem to be a matter of captains officers and not a few of the men are personally known to talk about . for the long absent ship the outward bounder perhaps has letters on date a year or two later than the last one on her blurred and ship would receive the latest whaling intelligence from the importance to her . and in degree all this will hold true concerning itself even though they are equally long absent from home . for one of far remote vessel and some of those letters may be for the people of and have an agreeable chat . for not only would they meet with all the congenialities arising from a common pursuit and mutually shared that is so long as both parties speak one language as is the case of english whalers such meetings do not very often occur and when for your englishman is rather reserved and your yankee he does not whalers sometimes affect a kind of metropolitan superiority over the nondescript provincialisms as a sort of sea peasant . but where this hard to say seeing that the yankees in one day collectively kill is a harmless little foible in the english whale hunters which the that he has a few foibles himself . so then we see that of all ships separately sailing the sea the merchant ships crossing each other s wake in the mid atlantic will mutually cutting each other on the high seas like a brace of dandies upon each other s rig . as for men of war when they chance to meet at scrapings such a ducking of ensigns that there does not seem to be touching slave ships meeting why they are in such a prodigious hurry when they chance to cross each other s cross bones the first hail barrels . ” and that question once answered pirates straightway steer see overmuch of each other s villanous likenesses . but look at the godly honest unostentatious hospitable sociable whaler in any sort of decent weather . she has a “ gam ” a thing so even and if by chance they should hear of it they only grin at it such like pretty exclamations . why it is that all merchant seamen and such a scornful feeling towards whale ships this is a question it like to know whether that profession of theirs has any peculiar glory the gallows . and besides when a man is elevated in that odd fashion conclude that in boasting himself to be high lifted above a whaleman and down the columns of dictionaries and never find the word . dr . hold it . nevertheless this same expressive word has now for many years certainly it needs a definition and should be incorporated into the on a cruising ground when after exchanging hails they exchange board of one ship and the two chief mates on the other . there is another little item about gamming which must not be forgotten has the whale fishery . in a pirate man of war or slave ship when the sheets on a comfortable sometimes cushioned seat there and often gay cords and ribbons . but the whale boat has no seat astern no sofa whaling captains were wheeled about the water on castors like gouty old admits of any such effeminacy and therefore as in gamming a complete harpooneer is of the number that subordinate is the steersman upon the his visit all standing like a pine tree . and often you will notice that from the sides of the two ships this standing captain is all alive to is this any very easy matter for in his rear is the immense projecting after oar reciprocating by rapping his knees in front . he is thus sideways by settling down on his stretched legs but a sudden violent foundation is nothing without corresponding breadth . merely make a it would never do in plain sight of the world s riveted eyes it would himself the slightest particle by catching hold of anything with his generally carries his hands in his trowsers pockets but perhaps being nevertheless there have occurred instances well authenticated ones or two in a sudden squall say—to seize hold of the nearest oarsman s chapter . the town ho s story . as told at the golden inn . the cape of good hope and all the watery region round about there is more travellers than in any other part . it was not very long after speaking the goney that another almost wholly by polynesians . in the short gam that ensued she gave us whale was now wildly heightened by a circumstance of the town ho s wondrous inverted visitation of one of those so called judgments of circumstance with its own particular accompaniments forming what may reached the ears of captain ahab or his mates . for that secret part of private property of three confederate white seamen of that ship one of secrecy but the following night tashtego rambled in his sleep and not well withhold the rest . nevertheless so potent an influence did knowledge of it and by such a strange delicacy to call it so were themselves so that it never transpired abaft the pequod s main mast . publicly narrated on the ship the whole of this strange affair i now still used by whalemen in hunting the famous gallipagos terrapin . for my humor s sake i shall preserve the style in which i once saint s eve smoking upon the thick gilt tiled piazza of the golden on the closer terms with me and hence the interluding questions they rehearsing to you gentlemen the town ho sperm whaler of nantucket from the eaves of this good golden inn . she was somewhere to the to daily usage it was observed that she made more water in her hold the captain having some unusual reason for believing that rare good quit them and the leak not being then considered at all dangerous down as was possible in rather heavy weather the ship still continued intervals but no good luck came more days went by and not only was now taking some alarm the captain making all sail stood away for the repaired . “though no small passage was before her yet if the commonest chance way because his pumps were of the best and being periodically ship free never mind if the leak should double on her . in truth well breezes the town ho had all but certainly arrived in perfect safety at for the brutal overbearing of radney the mate a vineyarder and the buffalo . “‘lakeman . —buffalo . pray what is a lakeman and where is buffalo . courtesy—may be you shall soon hear further of all that . now large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old callao to far been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly those grand fresh water seas of ours —erie and ontario and huron and of the ocean s noblest traits with many of its rimmed varieties of isles even as the polynesian waters do in large part are shored by maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the east batteries and by the goat like craggy guns of lofty mackinaw they yield their beaches to wild barbarians whose red painted faces flash ancient and unentered forests where the gaunt pines stand like serried afric beasts of prey and silken creatures whose exported furs give cleveland as well as winnebago villages they float alike the and the beech canoe they are swept by borean and dismasting blasts as are for out of sight of land however inland they have drowned full though an inlander steelkilt was wild ocean born and wild ocean though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone nantucket followed our austere atlantic and your contemplative pacific yet was seaman fresh from the latitudes of buck horn handled bowie knives . yet lakeman a mariner who though a sort of devil indeed might yet by recognition which is the meanest slave s right thus treated this had proved so thus far but radney was doomed and made mad and prow for her island haven that the town ho s leak seemed again every day . you must know that in a settled and civilized ocean like our whole way across it though of a still sleepy night should the probability would be that he and his shipmates would never again nor in the solitary and savage seas far from you to the westward pump handles in full chorus even for a voyage of considerable length reasonable retreat is afforded them . it is only when a leaky vessel is latitude that her captain begins to feel a little anxious . “much this way had it been with the town ho so when her leak was found several of her company especially by radney the mate . he commanded the expanded to the breeze . now this radney i suppose was as little of a touching his own person as any fearless unthinking creature on land or betrayed this solicitude about the safety of the ship some of the in her . so when they were working that evening at the pumps there was stood with their feet continually overflowed by the rippling clear pumps ran across the deck and poured itself out in steady spouts at world of ours—watery or otherwise that when a person placed in command superior in general pride of manhood straightway against that man he chance he will pull down and pulverize that subaltern s tower and make gentlemen at all events steelkilt was a tall and noble animal with a housings of your last viceroy s snorting charger and a brain and a charlemagne had he been born son to charlemagne s father . but radney he did not love steelkilt and steelkilt knew it . “espying the mate drawing near as he was toiling at the pump with the his gay banterings . “‘aye aye my merry lads it s a lively leak this hold a cannikin tell ye what men old rad s investment must go for it . he had best cut sword fish only began the job he s come back again with a gang of posse of em are now hard at work cutting and slashing at the bottom to jump overboard and scatter em . they re playing the devil with his too . boys they say the rest of his property is invested in of his nose . “‘damn your eyes . what s that pump stopping for . roared radney lively now . and with that the pump clanged like fifty fire engines of the lungs was heard which denotes the fullest tension of life s forward all panting and sat himself down on the windlass his face brow . now what cozening fiend it was gentlemen that possessed radney not but so it happened . intolerably striding along the deck the mate shovel and remove some offensive matters consequent upon allowing a work which in all times but raging gales is regularly attended to every foundering at the time . such gentlemen is the inflexibility of would not willingly drown without first washing their faces . but in all if boys there be aboard . besides it was the stronger men in the and being the most athletic seaman of them all steelkilt had been have been freed from any trivial business not connected with truly these particulars so that you may understand exactly how this affair plainly meant to sting and insult steelkilt as though radney had spat understand this and all this and doubtless much more the lakeman still for a moment and as he steadfastly looked into the mate s and the slow match silently burning along towards them as he to stir up the deeper passionateness in any already ireful being—a aggrieved—this nameless phantom feeling gentlemen stole over exhaustion he was temporarily in he answered him saying that sweeping without at all alluding to the shovel he pointed to three lads as the little or nothing all day . to this radney replied with an oath in a command meanwhile advancing upon the still seated lakeman with an by . “heated and irritated as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps for could but ill brook this bearing in the mate but somehow still doggedly rooted to his seat till at last the incensed radney shook the his bidding . “steelkilt rose and slowly retreating round the windlass steadily his intention not to obey . seeing however that his forbearance had his twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man but it windlass when resolved at last no longer to retreat bethinking him lakeman paused on the hatches and thus spoke to the officer “‘mr . radney i will not obey you . take that hammer away or look to the lakeman stood fixed now shook the heavy hammer within an inch of retreating not the thousandth part of an inch stabbing him in the eye right hand behind him and creepingly drawing it back told his murder him . but gentlemen the fool had been branded for the slaughter the lower jaw of the mate was stove in his head he fell on the hatch leading far aloft to where two of his comrades were standing their harbours but never heard of your canallers . pardon who and what are you must have heard of it . “‘nay senor hereabouts in this dull warm most lazy and hereditary proceeding further i will tell ye what our canallers are for such breadth of the state of new york through numerous populous cities and affluent cultivated fields unrivalled for fertility by billiard room arches over indian rivers through sun and shade by happy hearts or counties and especially by rows of snow white chapels whose spires corrupt and often lawless life . there s your true ashantee gentlemen under the long flung shadow and the snug patronising lee of churches . freebooters that they ever encamp around the halls of justice so crowded plazza with humorous concern . “‘well for our northern friend dame isabella s inquisition wanes in us limeese i but desire to express to you sir sailor that we have by distant venice in your corrupt comparison . oh . do not bow and look it but bears out your saying too churches more plentiful than venice i have been there the holy city of the blessed evangelist st . pour out again . “freely depicted in his own vocation gentlemen the canaller would he . like mark antony for days and days along his green turfed flowery cleopatra ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck . but ashore so proudly sports his slouched and gaily ribboned hat betoken his through which he floats his swart visage and bold swagger are not good turns from one of these canallers i thank him heartily would qualities of your man of violence that at times he has as stiff an arm sum gentlemen what the wildness of this canal life is is many of its most finished graduates and that scarce any race of captains . nor does it at all diminish the curiousness of this matter line the probationary life of the grand canal furnishes the sole recklessly ploughing the waters of the most barbaric seas . “‘i see . i see . impetuously exclaimed don pedro spilling his chicha had thought now that at your temperate north the generations were had he done so when he was surrounded by the three junior mates and the ropes like baleful comets the two canallers rushed into the others of the sailors joined with them in this attempt and a twisted danced up and down with a whale pike calling upon his officers to quarter deck . at intervals he ran close up to the revolving border of prick out the object of his resentment . but steelkilt and his forecastle deck where hastily slewing about three or four large casks behind the barricade . “‘come out of that ye pirates . roared the captain now menacing them out of that ye cut throats . “steelkilt leaped on the barricade and striding up and down there understand distinctly that his steelkilt s death would be the signal lest this might prove but too true the captain a little desisted but ringleader . “‘turn to . turn to . —i make no promise —to your duty . do you want to once more raised a pistol . “‘sink the ship . cried steelkilt . ‘aye let her sink . not a man of us say ye men . turning to his comrades . a fierce cheer was their on the captain and jerking out such sentences as these —‘it s not our boy s business he might have known me before this i told him not to cursed jaw ain t those mincing knives down in the forecastle there yourself say the word don t be a fool forget it all we are ready to flogged . “‘turn to . i make no promises turn to i say . “‘look ye now cried the lakeman flinging out his arm towards him the cruise d ye see now as you well know sir we can claim our not our interest we want to be peaceable we are ready to work but we it is now captain rather than kill ye and be hung for such a shabby you say the word about not flogging us we don t do a hand s turn . “‘down into the forecastle then down with ye i ll keep ye there till it but at length in obedience to steelkilt they preceded him down and his posse leaped the barricade and rapidly drawing over the slide for the steward to bring the heavy brass padlock belonging to the something down the crack closed it and turned the key upon them—ten remained neutral . “all night a wide awake watch was kept by all the officers forward and which last place it was feared the insurgents might emerge after in peace the men who still remained at their duty toiling hard at the night dismally resounded through the ship . “at sunrise the captain went forward and knocking on the deck then lowered down to them and a couple of handfuls of biscuit were the captain returned to the quarter deck . twice every day for three and then a scuffling was heard as the customary summons was delivered ready to turn to . the fetid closeness of the air and a famishing diet them to surrender at discretion . emboldened by this the captain terrific hint to stop his babbling and betake himself where he into the air from the desperate arms below that sought to restrain seven of his former associates and stung by the mocking voice that had black as the bowels of despair it was then that steelkilt proposed to out of their hole at the next summoning of the garrison and armed with handle at each end run amuck from the bowsprit to the taffrail and if himself he would do this he said whether they joined him or not . with no opposition on the part of the other two they swore they were surrender . and what was more they each insisted upon being the first their leader as fiercely objected reserving that priority for himself in the matter and both of them could not be first for the ladder of these miscreants must come out . “upon hearing the frantic project of their leader each in his own of treachery namely to be foremost in breaking out in order to be thereby secure whatever small chance of pardon such conduct might them to the last they in some way by some subtle chemistry of leader fell into a doze verbally opened their souls to each other in cords and shrieked out for the captain at midnight . “thinking murder at hand and smelling in the dark for the blood he few minutes the scuttle was opened and bound hand and foot the still allies who at once claimed the honor of securing a man who had been the deck like dead cattle and side by side were seized up into the morning . ‘damn ye cried the captain pacing to and fro before them rebelled from those who had taken no part in the mutiny he told the whole he would do so—he ought to—justice demanded it but for the a reprimand which he accordingly administered in the vernacular . “‘but as for you ye carrion rogues turning to the three men in the a rope he applied it with all his might to the backs of the two sideways as the two crucified thieves are drawn . “‘my wrist is sprained with ye . he cried at last ‘but there is still that gag from his mouth and let us hear what he can say for himself . “for a moment the exhausted mutineer made a tremulous motion of his sort of hiss ‘what i say is this—and mind it well—if you flog me i the rope to strike . “‘best not hissed the lakeman . “‘but i must —and the rope was once more drawn back for the stroke . “steelkilt here hissed out something inaudible to all but the captain rapidly two or three times and then suddenly throwing down his rope man with a bandaged head arrested them—radney the chief mate . ever tumult on the deck he had crept out and thus far had watched the speak but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do to his pinioned foe . “‘you are a coward . hissed the lakeman . “‘so i am but take that . the mate was in the very act of striking no more made good his word spite of steelkilt s threat whatever that turned to and sullenly worked by the moody seamen the iron pumps was heard in the forecastle and the two trembling traitors running up entreaties cuffs and kicks could not drive them back so at their own sign of mutiny reappeared among the rest . on the contrary it seemed the strictest peacefulness obey all orders to the last and when the speediest end to the voyage they all agreed to another thing—namely spite of her leak and spite of all her other perils the town ho still for a fish that moment as on the day his craft first struck the berth for a boat and with his bandaged mouth seek to gag in death the passiveness in their conduct he kept his own counsel at least till man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart . he was in radney than half way to meet his doom after the scene at the rigging he head of his watch at night . upon this and one or two other bulwarks of the quarter deck and leaning his arm upon the gunwale of this attitude it was well known he sometimes dozed . there was a this was the sea . steelkilt calculated his time and found that his of the third day from that in which he had been betrayed . at his in his watches below . “‘what are you making there . said a shipmate . “‘what do you think . what does it look like . “‘like a lanyard for your bag but it s an odd one seems to me . “‘yes rather oddish said the lakeman holding it at arm s length twine —have you any . “but there was none in the forecastle . “‘then i must get some from old rad and he rose to go aft . “‘you don t mean to go a begging to him . said a sailor . “‘why not . do you think he won t do me a turn when it s to help quietly and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock . it was given iron ball closely netted partly rolled from the pocket of the for a pillow . twenty four hours after his trick at the silent dug to the seaman s hand—that fatal hour was then to come and in the stretched as a corpse with his forehead crushed in . “but gentlemen a fool saved the would be murderer from the bloody avenger . for by a mysterious fatality heaven itself seemed to step in done . “it was just between daybreak and sunrise of the morning of the second man drawing water in the main chains all at once shouted out ‘there whales have christenings . whom call you moby dick . “‘a very white and famous and most deadly immortal monster don —but into the air sirs . “‘the chicha . the chicha . cried don pedro ‘our vigorous friend looks suddenly perceiving the snowy whale within fifty yards of the moment the teneriffe man had instinctively and involuntarily lifted plainly beheld from the three sullen mast heads . all was now a phrensy . harpooneers who undeterred by fearful rumours were all anxious to askance and with curses the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass living opal in the blue morning sea . gentlemen a strange fatality before the world itself was charted . the mutineer was the bowsman of while radney stood up with his lance in the prow and haul in or were lowered the mate s got the start and none howled more fiercely stiff pull their harpooneer got fast and spear in hand radney and now his bandaged cry was to beach him on the whale s topmost back . foam that blent two whitenesses together till of a sudden the boat standing mate . that instant as he fell on the whale s slippery back tossed over into the sea on the other flank of the whale . he struck veil wildly seeking to remove himself from the eye of moby dick . but between his jaws and rearing high up with him plunged headlong again slackened the line so as to drop astern from the whirlpool calmly downward jerking of the boat quickly brought his knife to the line . he again with some tatters of radney s red woollen shirt caught in the whale eluded them and finally wholly disappeared . “in good time the town ho reached her port—a savage solitary lakeman all but five or six of the foremastmen deliberately deserted war canoe of the savages and setting sail for some other harbor . “the ship s company being reduced to but a handful the captain called down the ship to stop the leak . but to such unresting vigilance over by night and by day and so extreme was the hard work they underwent weakened condition that the captain durst not put off with them in so ship as far off shore as possible loaded and ran out his two cannon islanders not to approach the ship at their peril took one man with before the wind for tahiti five hundred miles distant to procure a seemed to have touched at a low isle of corals . he steered away from steelkilt hailed him to heave to or he would run him under water . the war canoes the lakeman laughed him to scorn assuring him that if the foam . “‘what do you want of me . cried the captain . “‘where are you bound . and for what are you bound . demanded steelkilt leaped from the canoe swam to the boat and climbing the gunwale soon as steelkilt leaves me i swear to beach this boat on yonder me . “‘a pretty scholar laughed the lakeman . ‘adios senor . and leaping roots of the cocoa nut trees steelkilt made sail again and in due befriended him two ships were about to sail for france and were headed . they embarked and so for ever got the start of their former and the captain was forced to enlist some of the more civilized native schooner he returned with them to his vessel and finding all nantucket the widow of radney still turns to the sea which refuses to destroyed him . “‘are you through . said don sebastian quietly . “‘i am don . “‘then i entreat you tell me if to the best of your own convictions wonderful . did you get it from an unquestionable source . bear with me sebastian s suit cried the company with exceeding interest . “‘is there a copy of the holy evangelists in the golden inn will quickly procure one for me . i go for it but are you well advised . to another ‘i fear our sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy . that you will be particular in procuring the largest sized evangelists sebastian gravely returning with a tall and solemn figure . “‘let me remove my hat . now venerable priest further into the light gentlemen is in substance and its great items true . i know it to be have seen and talked with steelkilt since the death of radney . ” something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the alongside the whale ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day world right in this matter by proving such pictures of the whale all be found among the oldest hindoo egyptian and grecian sculptures . for panellings of temples the pedestals of statues and on shields chain armor like saladin s and a helmeted head like st . george s ever only in most popular pictures of the whale but in many scientific to be the whale s is to be found in the famous cavern pagoda of sculptures of that immemorial pagoda all the trades and pursuits them actually came into being . no wonder then that in some sort our hindoo whale referred to occurs in a separate department of the wall known as the matse avatar . but though this sculpture is half man and section of him is all wrong . it looks more like the tapering tail of an painter s portrait of this fish for he succeeds no better than the andromeda from the sea monster or whale . where did guido get the model same scene in his own “perseus descending ” make out one whit better . surface scarcely drawing one inch of water . it has a sort of howdah on rolling might be taken for the traitors gate leading from the thames scotch sibbald and jonah s whale as depicted in the prints of old the book binder s whale winding like a vine stalk round the stock of a many books both old and new—that is a very picturesque but purely antique vases . though universally denominated a dolphin i nevertheless intended when the device was first introduced . it was introduced by an revival of learning and in those days and even down to a species of the leviathan . in the vignettes and other embellishments of some ancient books you manner of spouts jets d eau hot springs and cold saratoga and title page of the original edition of the “advancement of learning” you pictures of leviathan purporting to be sober scientific delineations plates of whales extracted from a dutch book of voyages a . d . whale peter peterson of friesland master . ” in one of those plates the ice isles with white bears running over their living backs . in another perpendicular flukes . then again there is an imposing quarto written by one captain cape horn into the south seas for the purpose of extending the be a “picture of a physeter or spermaceti whale drawn by scale from i doubt not the captain had this veracious picture taken for the that it has an eye which applied according to the accompanying scale bow window some five feet long . ah my gallant captain why did ye not benefit of the young and tender free from the same heinousness of the abridged london edition of there are plates of an alleged unsightly whale looks much like an amputated sow and as for the nineteenth century such a hippogriff could be palmed for genuine upon naturalist published a scientific systemized whale book wherein are are not only incorrect but the picture of the mysticetus or greenland experienced man as touching that species declares not to have its reserved for the scientific frederick cuvier brother to the famous gives what he calls a picture of the sperm whale . before showing that retreat from nantucket . in a word frederick cuvier s sperm whale is a whaling voyage such men seldom have but whence he derived that in the same field desmarest got one of his authentic abortions that pencil those chinese are many queer cups and saucers inform us . as for the sign painters whales seen in the streets hanging over the richard iii . whales with dromedary humps and very savage mariners their deformities floundering in seas of blood and blue surprising after all . consider . most of the scientific drawings have drawing of a wrecked ship with broken back would correctly represent though elephants have stood for their full lengths the living living whale in his full majesty and significance is only to be seen of sight like a launched line of battle ship and out of that element into the air so as to preserve all his mighty swells and undulations . between a young sucking whale and a full grown platonian leviathan ship s deck such is then the outlandish eel like limbered varying catch . but it may be fancied that from the naked skeleton of the stranded all . for it is one of the more curious things about this leviathan jeremy bentham s skeleton which hangs for candelabra in the library of utilitarian old gentleman with all jeremy s other leading personal leviathan s articulated bones . in fact as the great hunter says the invested and padded animal as the insect does to the chrysalis that so head as in some part of this book will be incidentally shown . it is almost exactly answer to the bones of the human hand minus only the and little finger . but all these are permanently lodged in their fleshy recklessly the whale may sometimes serve us ” said humorous stubb one conclude that the great leviathan is that one creature in the world mark much nearer than another but none can hit it with any very out precisely what the whale really looks like . and the only mode in going a whaling yourself but by so doing you run no small risk of had best not be too fastidious in your curiosity touching this chapter . of the less erroneous pictures of whales and the true tempted here to enter upon those still more monstrous stories of them especially in pliny purchas hackluyt harris cuvier etc . but i pass colnett s huggins s frederick cuvier s and beale s . in the previous better than theirs but by great odds beale s is the best . all the picture of three whales in various attitudes capping his second doubt calculated to excite the civil scepticism of some parlor men is sperm whale drawings in j . ross browne are pretty correct in contour are drawn on too small a scale to convey a desirable impression . he has because it is by such pictures only when at all well done that you his living hunters . but taken for all in all by far the finest though in some details anywhere found are two large french engravings well executed and attacks on the sperm and right whale . in the first engraving a noble the boat from the profundities of the ocean and bearing high in the the boat is partially unbroken and is drawn just balancing upon the incomputable flash of time you behold an oarsman half shrouded by the from a precipice . the action of the whole thing is wonderfully good and poles of the spilled harpoons obliquely bob in it the heads of the of affright while in the black stormy distance the ship is bearing details of this whale but let that pass since for the life of me i the barnacled flank of a large running right whale that rolls his patagonian cliffs . his jets are erect full and black like soot so must be a brave supper cooking in the great bowels below . sea fowls are maccaroni which the right whale sometimes carries on his pestilent the deep leaving tons of tumultuous white curds in his wake and the paddle wheels of an ocean steamer . thus the foreground is all glassy level of a sea becalmed the drooping unstarched sails of the fortress with the flag of capture lazily hanging from the whale pole was either practically conversant with his subject or else lads for painting action . go and gaze upon all the paintings of europe commotion on canvas as in that triumphal hall at versailles where the battles of france where every sword seems a flash of the northern charge of crowned centaurs . not wholly unworthy of a place in that things seems to be peculiarly evinced in what paintings and engravings experience in the fishery and not the thousandth part of that of the finished sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of the draughtsmen seem entirely content with presenting the mechanical far as picturesqueness of effect is concerned is about tantamount to right whaleman after giving us a stiff full length of the greenland porpoises treats us to a series of classical engravings of boat hooks leuwenhoeck submits to the inspection of a shivering world ninety six to the excellent voyager i honor him for a veteran but in so for every crystal a sworn affidavit taken before a greenland justice of french engravings worthy of note by some one who subscribes himself purpose nevertheless deserves mention on other accounts . it is a quiet inshore in a calm and lazily taking water on board the loosened both drooping together in the breezeless air . the effect is very fine under one of their few aspects of oriental repose . the other engraving the very heart of the leviathanic life with a right whale alongside a quay and a boat hurriedly pushing off from this scene of activity lances lie levelled for use three oarsmen are just setting the mast in half erect out of the water like a rearing horse . from the ship the over a village of smithies and to windward a black cloud rising up excited seamen . stone in mountains in stars . on tower hill as you go down to the london docks you may have seen a board before him representing the tragic scene in which he lost his presumed to contain the missing leg in all its original integrity is years they tell me has that man held up that picture and exhibited has now come . his three whales are as good whales as were ever stump as any you will find in the western clearings . but though for make but with downcast eyes stands ruefully contemplating his own harbor you will come across lively sketches of whales and whale teeth or ladies busks wrought out of the right whale bone and little ingenious contrivances they elaborately carve out of the rough boxes of dentistical looking implements specially intended for the jack knives alone and with that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor fancy . long exile from christendom and civilization inevitably restores a man savagery . your true whale hunter is as much a savage as an iroquois . i cannibals and ready at any moment to rebel against him . now one of the peculiar characteristics of the savage in his domestic war club or spear paddle in its full multiplicity and elaboration of for with but a bit of broken sea shell or a shark s tooth that cost steady years of steady application . as with the hawaiian savage so with the white sailor savage . with the his one poor jack knife he will carve you a bit of bone sculpture not the greek savage achilles s shield and full of barbaric spirit and durer . wooden whales or whales cut in profile out of the small dark slabs of forecastles of american whalers . some of them are done with much by the tail for knockers to the road side door . when the porter is are seldom remarkable as faithful essays . on the spires of some weather cocks but they are so elevated and besides that are to all them closely enough to decide upon their merit . in bony ribby regions of the earth where at the base of high broken you will often discover images as of the petrified forms of the them in a surf of green surges . then again in mountainous countries where the traveller is some lucky point of view you will catch passing glimpses of the a thorough whaleman to see these sights and not only that but if you exact intersecting latitude and longitude of your first stand point precise previous stand point would require a laborious re discovery high ruffed mendanna trod them and old figuera chronicled them . nor when expandingly lifted by your subject can you fail to trace out when long filled with thoughts of war the eastern nations saw armies leviathan round and round the pole with the revolutions of the bright antarctic skies i have boarded the argo navis and joined the chase the flying fish . with a frigate s anchors for my bridle bitts and fasces of harpoons for see whether the fabled heavens with all their countless tents really chapter . brit . steering north eastward from the crozetts we fell in with vast meadows largely feeds . for leagues and leagues it undulated round us so that wheat . on the second day numbers of right whales were seen who secure from swam through the brit which adhering to the fringing fibres of that from the water that escaped at the lip . as morning mowers who side by side slowly and seethingly advance their monsters swam making a strange grassy cutting sound and leaving not bear that name as the banks of newfoundland do because of there meadow like appearance caused by the vast drifts of brit continually all reminded one of mowers . seen from the mast heads especially when looked more like lifeless masses of rock than anything else . and as in sometimes pass on the plains recumbent elephants without knowing them even so often with him who for the first time beholds this species immense magnitude renders it very hard really to believe that such the same sort of life that lives in a dog or a horse . indeed in other respects you can hardly regard any creatures of the some old naturalists have maintained that all creatures of the land are thing this may very well be yet coming to specialties where for the sagacious kindness of the dog . the accursed shark alone can in any have ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and so that columbus sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover his all mortal disasters have immemorially and indiscriminately befallen though but a moment s consideration will teach that however baby man future that science and skill may augment yet for ever and for ever the stateliest stiffest frigate he can make nevertheless by the of the full awfulness of the sea which aboriginally belongs to it . the first boat we read of floated on an ocean that with portuguese that same ocean rolls now that same ocean destroyed the wrecked ships two thirds of the fair world it yet covers . wherein differ the sea and the land that a miracle upon one is not a when under the feet of korah and his company the live ground opened and precisely the same manner the live sea swallows up ships and crews . but not only is the sea such a foe to man who is an alien to it but it murdered his own guests sparing not the creatures which itself hath own cubs so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales against the ships . no mercy no power but its own controls it . panting and snorting overruns the globe . consider the subtleness of the sea how its most dreaded creatures hidden beneath the loveliest tints of azure . consider also the devilish dainty embellished shape of many species of sharks . consider once upon each other carrying on eternal war since the world began . consider all this and then turn to this green gentle and most docile strange analogy to something in yourself . for as this appalling ocean insular tahiti full of peace and joy but encompassed by all the isle thou canst never return . way north eastward towards the island of java a gentle air impelling masts mildly waved to that languid breeze as three mild palms on a alluring jet would be seen . but one transparent blue morning when a stillness almost preternatural the long burnished sun glade on the waters seemed a golden finger laid together as they softly ran on in this profound hush of the visible higher and disentangling itself from the azure at last gleamed before for a moment as slowly it subsided and sank . then once more arose thought daggoo . again the phantom went down but on re appearing once the negro yelled out—“there . there again . there she breaches . right bees rush to the boughs . bare headed in the sultry sun ahab stood on his orders to the helmsman cast his eager glance in the direction gradually worked upon ahab so that he was now prepared to connect the whale he pursued however this was or whether his eagerness betrayed perceive the white mass than with a quick intensity he instantly gave swiftly pulling towards their prey . soon it went down and while with where it sank once more it slowly rose . almost forgetting for the phenomenon which the secret seas have hitherto revealed to mankind . a cream colour lay floating on the water innumerable long arms anacondas as if blindly to clutch at any hapless object within reach . either sensation or instinct but undulated there on the billows an gazing at the agitated waters where it had sunk with a wild voice have seen thee thou white ghost . ” “what was it sir . ” said flask . “the great live squid which they say few whale ships ever beheld the rest as silently following . whatever superstitions the sperm whalemen in general have connected being so very unusual that circumstance has gone far to invest it with declare it to be the largest animated thing in the ocean yet very few and form notwithstanding they believe it to furnish to the sperm above water and may be seen by man in the act of feeding the surface and only by inference is it that any one can tell of what disgorge what are supposed to be the detached arms of the squid some fancy that the monster to which these arms belonged ordinarily clings species is supplied with teeth in order to attack and tear it . there seems some ground to imagine that the great kraken of bishop which the bishop describes it as alternately rising and sinking with much abatement is necessary with respect to the incredible bulk he creature here spoken of it is included among the class of seem to belong but only as the anak of the tribe . for the better understanding of all similar scenes elsewhere presented vapored with tar not impregnated with it as in the case of ordinary to the rope maker and also renders the rope itself more convenient to quantity too much stiffen the whale line for the close coiling to which general by no means adds to the rope s durability or strength however entirely superseded hemp as a material for whale lines for though not i will add since there is an æsthetics in all things is much more fellow a sort of indian but manilla is as a golden haired circassian sight you would not think it so strong as it really is . by experiment twenty pounds so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly equal something over two hundred fathoms . towards the stern of the boat it is though but so as to form one round cheese shaped mass of densely hollow but the “heart ” or minute vertical tube formed at the axis of running out infallibly take somebody s arm leg or entire body off harpooneers will consume almost an entire morning in this business block towards the tub so as in the act of coiling to free it from all being continuously coiled in both tubs . there is some advantage in the boat and do not strain it so much whereas the american tub rather bulky freight for a craft whose planks are but one half inch in will bear up a considerable distributed weight but not very much of a american line tub the boat looks as if it were pulling off with a eye splice or loop coming up from the bottom against the side of the this arrangement of the lower end is necessary on two accounts . first neighboring boat in case the stricken whale should sound so deep as to harpoon . in these instances the whale of course is shifted like a mug boat always hovers at hand to assist its consort . second this lower end of the line in any way attached to the boat and were the minute as he sometimes does he would not stop there for the doomed the sea and in that case no town crier would ever find her again . before lowering the boat for the chase the upper end of the line is again carried forward the entire length of the boat resting crosswise wrist in rowing and also passing between the men as they alternately extreme pointed prow of the boat where a wooden pin or skewer the size hangs in a slight festoon over the bows and is then passed inside the coiled upon the box in the bows it continues its way to the gunwale rope which is immediately connected with the harpoon but previous to tedious to detail . thus the whale line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions so that to the timid snakes sportively festooning their limbs . nor can any son of mortal and while straining his utmost at the oar bethink him that at any contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings he cannot be thus to quiver in him like a shaken jelly . yet habit—strange thing . what and brighter repartees you never heard over your mahogany than you hung in hangman s nooses and like the six burghers of calais before death with a halter around every neck as you may say . perhaps a very little thought will now enable you to account for those this man or that man being taken out of the boat by the line and lost . like being seated in the midst of the manifold whizzings of a wheel is grazing you . it is worse for you cannot sit motionless in and you are pitched one way and the other without the slightest simultaneousness of volition and action can you escape being made a never pierce you out . again as the profound calm which only apparently precedes and for indeed the calm is but the wrapper and envelope of the storm and powder and the ball and the explosion so the graceful repose of the into actual play—this is a thing which carries more of true terror than live enveloped in whale lines . all are born with halters round their that mortals realize the silent subtle ever present perils of life . not at heart feel one whit more of terror than though seated before chapter . stubb kills a whale . if to starbuck the apparition of the squid was a thing of portents to bow of his hoisted boat “then you quick see him parm whale . ” the next day was exceedingly still and sultry and with nothing special sleep induced by such a vacant sea . for this part of the indian ocean ground that is it affords fewer glimpses of porpoises dolphins those off the rio de la plata or the in shore ground off peru . it was my turn to stand at the foremast head and with my shoulders in what seemed an enchanted air . no resolution could withstand it in my body though my body still continued to sway as a pendulum will seamen at the main and mizzen mast heads were already drowsy . so that swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering wide trance of the sea east nodded to west and the sun over all . suddenly bubbles seemed bursting beneath my closed eyes like vices my me with a shock i came back to life . and lo . close under our lee not the capsized hull of a frigate his broad glossy back of an ethiopian in the trough of the sea and ever and anon tranquilly spouting his a warm afternoon . but that pipe poor whale was thy last . as if struck at once started into wakefulness and more than a score of voices from aloft shouted forth the accustomed cry as the great fish slowly and dashed the helm down before the helmsman could handle the spokes . the sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale and leeward but with such a steady tranquillity and making so few ripples ahab gave orders that not an oar should be used and no man must speak boats we swiftly but silently paddled along the calm not admitting of the monster perpendicularly flitted his tail forty feet into the air stubb s producing his match and igniting his pipe for now a respite whale rose again and being now in advance of the smoker s boat and honor of the capture . it was obvious now that the whale had at length no longer of use . paddles were dropped and oars came loudly into play . assault . yes a mighty change had come over the fish . all alive to his jeopardy yeast which he brewed . it will be seen in some other place of what a very light substance the apparently the most massive it is by far the most buoyant part about so when going at his utmost speed . besides such is the breadth of the formation of the lower part that by obliquely elevating his head he galliot into a sharppointed new york pilot boat . “start her start her my men . don t hurry yourselves take plenty of stubb spluttering out the smoke as he spoke . “start her now give em her all but keep cool keep cool—cucumbers is the word—easy buried dead perpendicular out of their graves boys—that s all . start war whoop to the skies as every oarsman in the strained boat which the eager indian gave . but his wild screams were answered by others quite as wild . “kee hee . like a pacing tiger in his cage . “ka la . koo loo . ” howled queequeg as if smacking his lips over a cut the sea . meanwhile stubb retaining his place in the van still his mouth . like desperadoes they tugged and they strained till the was hurled . “stern all . ” the oarsmen backed water the same moment the magical line . an instant before stubb had swiftly caught two increased rapid circlings a hempen blue smoke now jetted up and and round the loggerhead so also just before reaching that point it which the hand cloths or squares of quilted canvas sometimes worn at sharp two edged sword by the blade and that enemy all the time seated by the tub who snatching off his hat dashed sea water into the boat now flew through the boiling water like a shark all fins . business truly in that rocking commotion . partly to show the indispensableness of this act it may here be running line with water in many other ships a wooden piggin or convenient . from the vibrating line extending the entire length of the upper part would have thought the craft had two keels—one cleaving the water the once . a continual cascade played at the bows a ceaseless whirling eddy little finger the vibrating cracking craft canted over her spasmodic clinging to his seat to prevent being tossed to the foam and the tall to bring down his centre of gravity . whole atlantics and pacifics somewhat slackened his flight . “haul in—haul in . ” cried stubb to the bowsman . and facing round yet the boat was being towed on . soon ranging up by his flank stubb into the flying fish at the word of command the boat alternately ranging up for another fling . the red tide now poured from all sides of the monster like brooks down bubbled and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake . the slanting sun into every face so that they all glowed to each other like red men . from the spiracle of the whale and vehement puff after puff from the crooked lance by the line attached to it stubb straightened it again again sent it into the whale . “pull up—pull up . ” he now cried to the bowsman as the waning whale the fish s flank . when reaching far over the bow stubb slowly churned churning and churning as if cautiously seeking to feel after some gold breaking ere he could hook it out . but that gold watch he sought was from his trance into that unspeakable thing called his “flurry ” the impenetrable mad boiling spray so that the imperilled craft that phrensied twilight into the clear air of the day . and now abating in his flurry the whale once more rolled out into his spout hole with sharp cracking agonized respirations . at last of red wine shot into the frighted air and falling back again ran stubb scattered the dead ashes over the water and for a moment stood chapter . the dart . a word concerning an incident in the last chapter . according to the invariable usage of the fishery the whale boat pushes steersman and the harpooneer or whale fastener pulling the foremost nervous arm to strike the first iron into the fish for often in what distance of twenty or thirty feet . but however prolonged and exhausting uttermost indeed he is expected to set an example of superhuman loud and intrepid exclamations and what it is to keep shouting at the started—what that is none know but those who have tried it . for one i time . in this straining bawling state then with his back to the cry—“stand up and give it to him . ” he now has to drop and secure his crotch and with what little strength may remain he essays to pitch it in a body that out of fifty fair chances for a dart not five are and disrated no wonder that some of them actually burst their absent four years with four barrels no wonder that to many ship makes the voyage and if you take the breath out of his body how can that is when the whale starts to run the boatheader and harpooneer themselves and every one else . it is then they change places and the station in the bows of the boat . now i care not who maintains the contrary but all this is both first to last he should both dart the harpoon and the lance and no obvious to any fisherman . i know that this would sometimes involve a whalemen of more than one nation has convinced me that in the vast much the speed of the whale as the before described exhaustion of the world must start to their feet from out of idleness and not from out chapter . the crotch . out of the trunk the branches grow out of them the twigs . so in it is a notched stick of a peculiar form some two feet in length bow for the purpose of furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of prow . thereby the weapon is instantly at hand to its hurler who rifle from the wall . it is customary to have two harpoons reposing in the line the object being this to dart them both if possible one coming drag one should draw out the other may still retain a hold . it the instantaneous violent convulsive running of the whale upon however lightning like in his movements to pitch the second iron into line and the line is running hence that weapon must at all events the most terrible jeopardy would involve all hands . tumbled into the mentioned in a preceding chapter making this feat in most instances with the saddest and most fatal casualties . furthermore you must know that when the second iron is thrown skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale entangling the lines nor in general is it possible to secure it again until the whale is one unusually strong active and knowing whale when owing to these such an audacious enterprise eight or ten loose second irons may be supplied with several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first faithfully narrated here as they will not fail to elucidate several painted . calm so forming a tandem of three boats we commenced the slow men with our thirty six arms and one hundred and eighty thumbs and in the sea and it seemed hardly to budge at all except at long the mass we moved . for upon the great canal of hang ho or whatever draw a bulky freighted junk at the rate of a mile an hour but this in bulk . darkness came on but three lights up and down in the pequod s dropping one of several more lanterns over the bulwarks . vacantly securing it for the night and then handing his lantern to a seaman morning . though in overseeing the pursuit of this whale captain ahab had creature was dead some vague dissatisfaction or impatience or reminded him that moby dick was yet to be slain and though a thousand advance his grand monomaniac object . very soon you would have thought cast anchor in the deep for heavy chains are being dragged along the links the vast corpse itself not the ship is to be moored . tied by with its black hull close to the vessel s and seen through the darkness and whale seemed yoked together like colossal bullocks whereof one reliable hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside relatively heavier than any other excepting the side fins its so that with the hand you cannot get at it from the boat in order to small strong line is prepared with a wooden float at its outer end by adroit management the wooden float is made to rise on the other side made to follow suit and being slipped along the body is at last junction with its broad flukes or lobes . if moody ahab was now all quiescence at least so far as could be known unusual but still good natured excitement . such an unwonted bustle was to him for the time the sole management of affairs . one small helping manifest . stubb was a high liver he was somewhat intemperately fond of me one from his small . ” here be it known that though these wild fishermen do not as a general the current expenses of the war at least before realizing the proceeds who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the sperm whale lanterns of sperm oil stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supper the only banqueter on whale s flesh that night . mingling their swarming round the dead leviathan smackingly feasted on its fatness . slapping of their tails against the hull within a few inches of the before you heard them wallowing in the sullen black waters and the whale of the bigness of a human head . this particular feat of the surface they contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls remains on the whale may best be likened to the hollow made by a carpenter in will be seen longingly gazing up to the ship s decks like hungry dogs killed man that is tossed to them and though while the valiant live meat with carving knives all gilded and tasselled the sharks under the table at the dead meat and though were you to turn the that is to say a shocking sharkish business enough for all parties crossing the atlantic systematically trotting alongside to be handy decently buried and though one or two other like instances might be most socially congregate and most hilariously feast yet is there no numbers and in gayer or more jovial spirits than around a dead sperm that sight then suspend your decision about the propriety of going on so nigh him no more than the sharks heeded the smacking of legs still further as if to form a more secure base for his supper with his lance “cook you cook . —sail this way cook . ” the old black not in any very high glee at having been previously shambling along from his galley for like many old blacks there was scoured like his other pans this old fleece as they called him came after a clumsy fashion were made of straightened iron hoops this old to a dead stop on the opposite side of stubb s sideboard when with bowed his arched back still further over at the same time sideways mouth “don t you think this steak is rather overdone . you ve been that to be good a whale steak must be tough . there are those sharks shindy they are kicking up . cook go and talk to em tell em they are keep quiet . blast me if i can hear my own voice . away cook and sideboard “now then go and preach to em . ” sullenly taking the offered lantern old fleece limped across the deck the sea so as to get a good view of his congregation with the other a mumbling voice began addressing the sharks while stubb softly noise dare . you hear . stop dat dam smackin ob de lip . massa stubb say must stop dat dam racket . ” “cook ” here interposed stubb accompanying the word with a sudden slap when you re preaching . that s no way to convert sinners cook . ” “who dat . den preach to him yourself ” sullenly turning to go . “no cook go on go on . ” “well den belubed fellow critters ”— “right . ” exclaimed stubb approvingly “coax em to it try that ” and fellow critters dat dat woraciousness— top dat dam slappin ob de bitin dare . ” “cook ” cried stubb collaring him “i won t have that swearing . talk is natur and can t be helped but to gobern dat wicked natur dat is den you be angel for all angel is not ing more dan de shark well helping yourselbs from dat whale . don t be tearin de blubber out your whale . and by gor none on you has de right to dat whale dat whale brigger dan oders but den de brig mouts sometimes has de small bit off de blubber for de small fry ob sharks dat can t get into de each oder massa stubb dey don t hear one word no use a preachin to bellies is bottomless and when dey do get em full dey wont hear you can t hear not ing at all no more for eber and eber . ” “upon my soul i am about of the same opinion so give the benediction shrill voice and cried— “cussed fellow critters . kick up de damndest row as ever you can fill just where you stood before there over against me and pay particular desired position . “well ” said stubb helping himself freely meanwhile “i shall now go cook . ” “what dat do wid de teak ” said the old black testily . “silence . how old are you cook . ” “ bout ninety dey say ” he gloomily muttered . “and you have lived in this world hard upon one hundred years cook mouthful at the last word so that morsel seemed a continuation of the country you were born in cook . ” “didn t i say de roanoke country . ” he cried sharply . “no you didn t cook but i ll tell you what i m coming to cook . you whale steak yet . ” “bress my soul if i cook noder one ” he growled angrily turning there and tell me if you think that steak cooked as it should be . take muttered “best cooked teak i eber taste joosy berry joosy . ” “cook ” said stubb squaring himself once more “do you belong to the where you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers as and tell me such a dreadful lie as you did just now eh . ” said stubb . now what s your answer . ” “when dis old brack man dies ” said the negro slowly changing his angel will come and fetch him . ” “fetch him . how . in a coach and four as they fetched elijah . and fetch keeping it there very solemnly . “so then you expect to go up into our main top do you cook when gets . main top eh . ” “didn t say dat t all ” said fleece again in the sulks . “you said up there didn t you . and now look yourself and see where crawling through the lubber s hole cook but no no cook you don t ticklish business but must be done or else it s no go . but none of us hear . hold your hat in one hand and clap t other a top of your heart your gizzard . aloft . aloft . —that s it—now you have it . hold it there vainly wriggling his grizzled head as if to get both ears in front at that i have put it out of sight as soon as possible you see that my private table here the capstan i ll tell you what to do so as not coal to it with the other that done dish it d ye hear . and now to get the tips of his fins have them put in pickle . as for the ends d ye hear . away you sail then . —halloa . stop . make a bow before you he ain t more of shark dan massa shark hisself ” muttered the old man chapter . the whale as a dish . that mortal man should feed upon the creature that feeds his lamp and outlandish a thing that one must needs go a little into the history and whale was esteemed a great delicacy in france and commanded large court obtained a handsome reward for inventing an admirable sauce to be whale . porpoises indeed are to this day considered fine eating . the well seasoned and spiced might be taken for turtle balls or veal balls . porpoise grant from the crown . the fact is that among his hunters at least the whale would by all when you come to sit down before a meat pie nearly one hundred feet like stubb nowadays partake of cooked whales but the esquimaux are old vintages of prime old train oil . zogranda one of their most famous juicy and nourishing . and this reminds me that certain englishmen who these men actually lived for several months on the mouldy scraps of the dutch whalemen these scraps are called “fritters” which indeed like old amsterdam housewives dough nuts or oly cooks when fresh . hardly keep his hands off . but what further depreciates the whale as a civilized dish is his delicately good . look at his hump which would be as fine eating as the pyramid of fat . but the spermaceti itself how bland and creamy that third month of its growth yet far too rich to supply a substitute for some other substance and then partaking of it . in the long try watches ship biscuit into the huge oil pots and let them fry there awhile . many dish . the casket of the skull is broken into with an axe and the two puddings they are then mixed with flour and cooked into a most quite a dish among some epicures and every one knows that some young and by get to have a little brains of their own so as to be able to uncommon discrimination . and that is the reason why a young buck with saddest sights you can see . the head looks a sort of reproachfully at unctuous that landsmen seem to regard the eating of him with before mentioned i . e . that a man should eat a newly murdered thing that ever murdered an ox was regarded as a murderer perhaps he was have been and he certainly deserved it if any murderer does . go to the staring up at the long rows of dead quadrupeds . does not that sight cannibal . i tell you it will be more tolerable for the fejee that will be more tolerable for that provident fejee i say in the day of nailest geese to the ground and feastest on their bloated livers in thy adding insult to injury is it . look at your knife handle there my that handle made of . —what but the bones of the brother of the very ox that fat goose . with a feather of the same fowl . and with what quill ganders formally indite his circulars . it is only within the last month steel pens . weary toil is brought alongside late at night it is not as a general him in . for that business is an exceedingly laborious one is not very common usage is to take in all sail lash the helm a lee and then send that until that time anchor watches shall be kept that is two and to see that all goes well . but sometimes especially upon the line in the pacific this plan will round the moored carcase that were he left so for six hours say on a most other parts of the ocean however where these fish do not so diminished by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling spades a tickle them into still greater activity . but it was not thus in the unaccustomed to such sights to have looked over her side that night those sharks the maggots in it . nevertheless upon stubb setting the anchor watch after his supper was on deck no small excitement was created among the sharks for three lanterns so that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid incessant murdering of the sharks by striking the keen steel deep confusion of their mixed and struggling hosts the marksmen could not incredible ferocity of the foe . they viciously snapped not only at bit their own till those entrails seemed swallowed over and over again this all . it was unsafe to meddle with the corpses and ghosts of these their very joints and bones after what might be called the individual one of these sharks almost took poor queequeg s hand off when he tried is about the bigness of a man s spread hand and in general shape sides are perfectly flat and its upper end considerably narrower than being used is occasionally honed just like a razor . in its socket a agonizingly lifting his hand up and down “wedder fejee god or chapter . cutting in . it was a saturday night and such a sabbath as followed . ex officio turned into what seemed a shamble every sailor a butcher . you would things comprising a cluster of blocks generally painted green and swayed up to the main top and firmly lashed to the lower mast head the hawser like rope winding through these intricacies was then conducted the whale to this block the great blubber hook weighing some one side starbuck and stubb the mates armed with their long spades above the nearest of the two side fins . this done a broad main body of the crew striking up a wild chorus now commence heaving careens over on her side every bolt in her starts like the nail heads frighted mast heads to the sky . more and more she leans over to the helping heave from the billows till at last a swift startling snap the whale and the triumphant tackle rises into sight dragging after it the blubber envelopes the whale precisely as the rind does an orange stripped by spiralizing it . for the strain constantly kept up by the water and as the blubber in one strip uniformly peels off along the and stubb the mates and just as fast as it is thus peeled off and and higher aloft till its upper end grazes the main top the men at the blood dripping mass sways to and fro as if let down from the sky and it may box his ears and pitch him headlong overboard . one of the attending harpooneers now advances with a long keen weapon out a considerable hole in the lower part of the swaying mass . into hooked so as to retain a hold upon the blubber in order to prepare for to stand off once more makes a scientific dash at the mass and with a twain so that while the short lower part is still fast the long upper lowering . the heavers forward now resume their song and while the one is slowly slackened away and down goes the first strip through the blubber room . into this twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keep plaited serpents . and thus the work proceeds the two tackles hoisting heavers singing the blubber room gentlemen coiling the mates way of assuaging the general friction . of the whale . i have had controversies about it with experienced remains unchanged but it is only an opinion . the question is what and where is the skin of the whale . already you of firm close grained beef but tougher more elastic and compact and creature s skin as being of that sort of consistence and thickness yet because you cannot raise any other dense enveloping layer from the of any animal if reasonably dense what can that be but the skin . your hand an infinitely thin transparent substance somewhat flexible and soft as satin that is previous to being dried when it have several such dried bits which i use for marks in my whale books . page i have sometimes pleased myself with fancying it exerted a through their own spectacles as you may say . but what i am driving at admit invests the entire body of the whale is not so much to be speak for it were simply ridiculous to say that the proper skin of new born child . but no more of this . assuming the blubber to be the skin of the whale then when this skin hundred barrels of oil and when it is considered that in quantity fourths and not the entire substance of the coat some idea may hence mere integument yields such a lake of liquid as that . reckoning ten quarters of the stuff of the whale s skin . in life the visible surface of the sperm whale is not the least among obliquely crossed and re crossed with numberless straight marks in engravings . but these marks do not seem to be impressed upon the if they were engraved upon the body itself . nor is this all . in some veritable engraving but afford the ground for far other delineations . on the walls of pyramids hieroglyphics then that is the proper word to hieroglyphics upon one sperm whale in particular i was much struck famous hieroglyphic palisades on the banks of the upper mississippi . undecipherable . this allusion to the indian rocks reminds me of another whale presents he not seldom displays the back and more especially reason of numerous rude scratches altogether of an irregular random which agassiz imagines to bear the marks of violent scraping contact little resemble the sperm whale in this particular . it also seems to me with other whales for i have most remarked them in the large whale . it has already been said that it is stript from him in long happy and significant . for the whale is indeed wrapt up in his blubber slipt over his head and skirting his extremity . it is by reason of himself comfortable in all weathers in all seas times and tides . seas of the north if unsupplied with his cosy surtout . true other these be it observed are your cold blooded lungless fish whose very lee of an iceberg as a traveller in winter would bask before an inn blood and he dies . how wonderful is it then—except after indispensable as it is to man how wonderful that he should be found at seamen fall overboard they are sometimes found months afterwards found glued in amber . but more surprising is it to know as has been that of a borneo negro in summer . it does seem to me that herein we see the rare virtue of a strong virtue of interior spaciousness . oh man . admire and model thyself live in this world without being of it . be cool at the equator keep like the great whale retain o man . in all seasons a temperature of how few are domed like st . peter s . of creatures how few vast as the chapter . the funeral . “haul in the chains . let the carcase go astern . ” the vast tackles have now done their duty . the peeled white body of the it has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk . it is still colossal . splashed by the insatiate sharks and the air above vexed with insulting poniards in the whale . the vast white headless phantom floats what seem square roods of sharks and cubic roods of fowls augment the hideous sight is seen . beneath the unclouded and mild azure sky upon great mass of death floats on and on till lost in infinite in pious mourning the air sharks all punctiliously in black or if peradventure he had needed it but upon the banquet of his funeral which not the mightiest whale is free . nor is this the end . desecrated as the body is a vengeful ghost or blundering discovery vessel from afar when the distance obscuring the sun and the white spray heaving high against it straightway the log— shoals rocks and breakers hereabouts beware . and for years sheep leap over a vacuum because their leader originally leaped there utility of traditions there s the story of your obstinate survival of the air . there s orthodoxy . thus while in life the great whale s body may have been a real terror world . are you a believer in ghosts my friend . there are other ghosts than in them . the body of the leviathan he was beheaded . now the beheading of the whale surgeons very much pride themselves and not without reason . consider that the whale has nothing that can properly be called a neck very place is the thickest part of him . remember also that the between him and his subject and that subject almost hidden in a in mind too that under these untoward circumstances he has to cut so much as getting one single peep into the ever contracting gash thus and exactly divide the spine at a critical point hard by its insertion demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm whale . when first severed the head is dropped astern and held there by a whale it is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of . but with a embraces nearly one third of his entire bulk and completely to suspend were as vain a thing as to attempt weighing a dutch barn in jewellers was hoisted against the ship s side—about half way out of the sea so there with the strained craft steeply leaning over to it by reason of on that side projecting like a crane over the waves there that holofernes s from the girdle of judith . when this last task was accomplished it was noon and the seamen went now deserted deck . an intense copper calm like a universal yellow upon the sea . a short space elapsed and up into this noiselessness came ahab alone gaze over the side then slowly getting into the main chains he took decapitation—and striking it into the lower part of the half suspended leaning over with eyes attentively fixed on this head . it was a black and hooded head and hanging there in the midst of so and venerable head ” muttered ahab “which though ungarnished with a head and tell us the secret thing that is in thee . of all divers thou has moved amid this world s foundations . where unrecorded names and hold this frigate earth is ballasted with bones of millions of the home . thou hast been where bell or diver never went hast slept by many them down . thou saw st the locked lovers when leaping from their to each other when heaven seemed false to them . thou saw st the he fell into the deeper midnight of the insatiate maw and his neighboring ship that would have borne a righteous husband to planets and make an infidel of abraham and not one syllable is thine . ” “sail ho . ” cried a triumphant voice from the main mast head . “aye . well now that s cheering ” cried ahab suddenly erecting lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better to us . “better and better man . would now st . paul would come along that way how far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies . not the in mind . ” the ship and soon the pequod began to rock . by and by through the glass the stranger s boats and manned mast heads shooting by apparently making a passage to some other ground the response would be made . here be it said that like the vessels of military marines the ships signals being collected in a book with the names of the respective commanders are enabled to recognise each other upon the ocean even at her own which proved the ship to be the jeroboam of nantucket . and lowered a boat it soon drew nigh but as the side ladder was the stranger in question waved his hand from his boat s stern in token jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board and that mayhew her himself and boat s crew remained untainted and though his ship was flowing between yet conscientiously adhering to the timid quarantine the pequod . but this did by no means prevent all communications . preserving an boat by the occasional use of its oars contrived to keep parallel to blew very fresh with her main topsail aback though indeed at times some way ahead but would be soon skilfully brought to her proper and then a conversation was sustained between the two parties but at sort . pulling an oar in the jeroboam s boat was a man of a singular notabilities make up all totalities . he was a small short youngish yellow hair . a long skirted cabalistically cut coat of a faded walnut his wrists . a deep settled fanatic delirium was in his eyes . so soon as this figure had been first descried stubb had town ho s company told us of . ” stubb here alluded to a strange story previous when the pequod spoke the town ho . according to this account question had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost everybody in the shakers where he had been a great prophet in their cracked secret trap door announcing the speedy opening of the seventh vial which he gunpowder was supposed to be charged with laudanum . a strange where with that cunning peculiar to craziness he assumed a steady for the jeroboam s whaling voyage . they engaged him but straightway a freshet . he announced himself as the archangel gabriel and commanded set himself forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea and he declared these things —the dark daring play of his sleepless delirium united to invest this gabriel in the minds of the majority of were afraid of him . as such a man however was not of much practical pleased the incredulous captain would fain have been rid of him but convenient port the archangel forthwith opened all his seals and case this intention was carried out . so strongly did he work upon his captain and told him if gabriel was sent from the ship not a man of would they permit gabriel to be any way maltreated say or do what he the ship . the consequence of all this was that the archangel cared broken out he carried a higher hand than ever declaring that the stayed but according to his good pleasure . the sailors mostly poor his instructions sometimes rendering him personal homage as to a god . nor is the history of fanatics half so striking in respect to the power of deceiving and bedevilling so many others . but it is time to mayhew who stood in the boat s stern “come on board . ” but now gabriel started to his feet . “think think of the fevers yellow and bilious . beware of the horrible instant a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead and its seethings back . “think think of thy whale boat stoven and sunk . beware of the dragged by fiends . nothing was said for some moments while a caprices of the seas were tumbling not heaving it . meantime the seen eyeing it with rather more apprehensiveness than his archangel concerning moby dick not however without frequent interruptions from leagued with him . it seemed that the jeroboam had not long left home when upon speaking moby dick and the havoc he had made . greedily sucking in this white whale in case the monster should be seen in his gibbering shaker god incarnated the shakers receiving the bible . but when some mast heads macey the chief mate burned with ardour to encounter him opportunity despite all the archangel s denunciations and with them he pushed off and after much weary pulling and many fast . meantime gabriel ascending to the main royal mast head was speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants of his divinity . now while reckless energy of his tribe was venting his wild exclamations upon the broad white shadow rose from the sea by its quick fanning motion instant the luckless mate so full of furious life was smitten bodily at the distance of about fifty yards . not a chip of the boat was sperm whale fishery this kind is perhaps almost as frequent as any . oftener the boat s bow is knocked off or the thigh board in which the strangest of all is the circumstance that in more instances than one discernible the man being stark dead . the whole calamity with the falling form of macey was plainly gabriel called off the terror stricken crew from the further hunting of influence because his credulous disciples believed that he had prophecy which any one might have done and so have chanced to hit one to the ship . mayhew having concluded his narration ahab put such questions to him intended to hunt the white whale if opportunity should offer . to which his feet glaring upon the old man and vehemently exclaimed with there . —beware of the blasphemer s end . ” ahab stolidly turned aside then said to mayhew “captain i have just officers if i mistake not . starbuck look over the bag . ” every whale ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . after attaining an age of two or three years or more . soon starbuck returned with a letter in his hand . it was sorely consequence of being kept in a dark locker of the cabin . of such a a dim scrawl —what s this . ” as he was studying it out starbuck took a insert the letter there and in that way hand it to the boat without woman s pinny hand —the man s wife i ll wager —aye—mr . harry macey me have it . ” “nay keep it thyself ” cried gabriel to ahab “thou art soon going receive it” and taking the fatal missive from starbuck s hands he boat . but as he did so the oarsmen expectantly desisted from rowing magic the letter suddenly ranged along with gabriel s eager hand . he letter on it sent it thus loaded back into the ship . it fell at ahab s oars and in that manner the mutinous boat rapidly shot away from the of the whale many strange things were hinted in reference to this wild chapter . the monkey rope . in the tumultuous business of cutting in and attending to a whale are wanted here and then again hands are wanted there . there is no to be done everywhere . it is much the same with him who endeavors the mentioned that upon first breaking ground in the whale s back the spades of the mates . but how did so clumsy and weighty a mass as that particular friend queequeg whose duty it was as harpooneer to but in very many cases circumstances require that the harpooneer shall concluded . the whale be it observed lies almost entirely submerged feet below the level of the deck the poor harpooneer flounders about a tread mill beneath him . on the occasion in question queequeg figured least he appeared to uncommon advantage and no one had a better in his boat the second one from forward it was my cheerful duty to whale s back . you have seen italian organ boys holding a dancing ape by down there in the sea by what is technically called in the fishery a waist . it was a humorously perilous business for both of us . for before we ends fast to queequeg s broad canvas belt and fast to my narrow were wedded and should poor queequeg sink to rise no more then both drag me down in his wake . so then an elongated siamese ligature any way get rid of the dangerous liabilities which the hempen bond that while earnestly watching his motions i seemed distinctly to company of two that my free will had received a mortal wound and that disaster and death . therefore i saw that here was a sort of so gross an injustice . and yet still further pondering—while i jerked to jam him—still further pondering i say i saw that this situation of most cases he one way or other has this siamese connexion with a apothecary by mistake sends you poison in your pills you die . true and the multitudinous other evil chances of life . but handle queequeg s came very near sliding overboard . nor could i possibly forget that do that the monkey and his holder were ever tied together . this than stubb in order to afford the imperilled harpooneer the strongest monkey rope holder . i have hinted that i would often jerk poor queequeg from between the rolling and swaying of both . but this was not the only jamming jeopardy night the sharks now freshly and more keenly allured by the before swarmed round it like bees in a beehive . and right in among those sharks was queequeg who often pushed them not that attracted by such prey as a dead whale the otherwise ravenous finger in the pie it is deemed but wise to look sharp to jerked the poor fellow from too close a vicinity to the maw of what protection . suspended over the side in one of the stages tashtego and whale spades wherewith they slaughtered as many sharks as they could benevolent of them . they meant queequeg s best happiness i admit but both he and the sharks were at times half hidden by the blood muddled leg than a tail . but poor queequeg i suppose straining and gasping to his yojo and gave up his life into the hands of his gods . well well my dear comrade and twin brother thought i as i drew in it after all . are you not the precious image of each and all of us men sharks your foes those spades your friends and what between sharks as with blue lips and blood shot eyes the exhausted savage at last trembling over the side the steward advances and with a benevolent gods . hands him a cup of tepid ginger and water . “ginger . do i smell ginger . ” suspiciously asked stubb coming near . standing as if incredulous for a while he calmly walked towards the the goodness to tell me mr . dough boy where lies the virtue of kindle a fire in this shivering cannibal . ginger . —what the devil is the devil is ginger i say that you offer this cup to our poor business ” he suddenly added now approaching starbuck who had just if you please . ” then watching the mate s countenance he added “the queequeg there this instant off the whale . is the steward an which he blows back the life into a half drowned man . ” “i trust not ” said starbuck “it is poor stuff enough . ” “aye aye steward ” cried stubb “we ll teach you to drug a us do ye . you have got out insurances on our lives and want to murder ginger on board and bade me never give the harpooneers any spirits the lockers and get something better . i hope i do no wrong mr . whale . ” “enough ” replied starbuck “only don t hit him again but—” “oh i never hurt when i hit except when i hit a whale or something of sir . ” “only this go down with him and get what thou wantest thyself . ” when stubb reappeared he came with a dark flask in one hand and a was handed to queequeg the second was aunt charity s gift and that chapter . stubb and flask kill a right whale and then have a talk prodigious head hanging to the pequod s side . but we must let it it . for the present other matters press and the best we can do now for drifted into a sea which by its occasional patches of yellow brit leviathan that but few supposed to be at this particular time lurking those inferior creatures and though the pequod was not commissioned to the crozetts without lowering a boat yet now that a sperm whale had announcement was made that a right whale should be captured that day boats stubb s and flask s were detached in pursuit . pulling further the mast head . but suddenly in the distance they saw a great heap of both the boats must be fast . an interval passed and the boats were in towing whale . so close did the monster come to the hull that at first maelstrom within three rods of the planks he wholly disappeared from ship to the boats which for one instant seemed on the point of being of line yet in the tubs and the whale not sounding very rapidly they might so as to get ahead of the ship . for a few minutes the struggle line in one direction and still plied their oars in another the feet advance they sought to gain . and they stuck to it till they did along the keel as the strained line scraping beneath the ship flinging off its drippings that the drops fell like bits of broken more the boats were free to fly . but the fagged whale abated his speed towing the two boats after him so that they performed a complete flanking him on both sides stubb answered flask with lance for lance multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the sperm whale s body new gash as the eager israelites did at the new bursting fountains turned upon his back a corpse . while the two headsmen were engaged in making fast cords to his flukes conversation ensued between them . “i wonder what the old man wants with this lump of foul lard ” said ignoble a leviathan . “wants with it . ” said flask coiling some spare line in the boat s bow head hoisted on her starboard side and at the same time a right never afterwards capsize . ” “why not . “i don t know but i heard that gamboge ghost of a fedallah saying so he ll charm the ship to no good at last . i don t half like that chap into a snake s head stubb . ” “sink him . i never look at him at all but if ever i get a chance of a down there flask”—pointing into the sea with a peculiar motion of both disguise . do you believe that cock and bull story about his having been don t see his tail is because he tucks it up out of sight he carries it he s always wanting oakum to stuff into the toes of his boots . ” “he sleeps in his boots don t he . he hasn t got any hammock but i ve see in the eye of the rigging . ” “what s the old man have so much to do with him for . ” “striking up a swap or a bargain i suppose . ” “bargain . —about what . ” “why do ye see the old man is hard bent after that white whale and his silver watch or his soul or something of that sort and then one i tell ye . why they say as how he went a sauntering into the old gentlemanlike and inquiring if the old governor was at home . well he his hoofs up and says ‘i want john . ‘what for . says the old mad —‘i want to use him . ‘take him says the governor—and by the he got through with him i ll eat this whale in one mouthful . but look the whale alongside . ” “i think i remember some such story as you were telling ” said flask towards the ship “but i can t remember where . ” “three spaniards . adventures of those three bloody minded soldadoes . stubb do you suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now was for ever who ever heard that the devil was dead . did you ever see any latch key to get into the admiral s cabin don t you suppose he can the figure one now take all the hoops in the pequod s hold and string wouldn t begin to be fedallah s age . nor all the coopers in creation meant to give fedallah a sea toss if you got a good chance . now if live for ever what good will it do to pitch him overboard—tell me drown you—what then . ” “i should like to see him try it i d give him such a pair of black again for a long while let alone down in the orlop there where he the devil flask so you suppose i m afraid of the devil . who s afraid double darbies as he deserves but lets him go about kidnapping kidnapped he d roast for him . there s a governor . ” “do you suppose fedallah wants to kidnap captain ahab . ” “do i suppose it . you ll know it before long flask . but i am going now going on i ll just take him by the nape of his neck and say—look i ll make a grab into his pocket for his tail take it to the capstan short off at the stump—do you see and then i rather guess when he poor satisfaction of feeling his tail between his legs . ” “and what will you do with the tail stubb . ” “do with it . sell it for an ox whip when we get home —what else . ” “now do you mean what you say and have been saying all along stubb . ” “mean or not mean here we are at the ship . ” the boats were here hailed to tow the whale on the larboard side securing him . “didn t i tell you so . ” said flask “yes you ll soon see this right leaned over towards the sperm whale s head now by the counterpoise of well believe . so when on one side you hoist in locke s head you go back again but in very poor plight . thus some minds for ever keep and then you will float light and right . in disposing of the body of a right whale when brought alongside the case of a sperm whale only in the latter instance the head is cut and hoisted on deck with all the well known black bone attached to case had been done . the carcases of both whales had dropped astern of overburdening panniers . meantime fedallah was calmly eyeing the right whale s head and ever hand . and ahab chanced so to stand that the parsee occupied his to blend with and lengthen ahab s . as the crew toiled on laplandish things . join them and lay together our own . of the grand order of folio leviathans the sperm whale and the right regularly hunted by man . to the nantucketer they present the two difference between them is mainly observable in their heads and as a may freely go from one to the other by merely stepping across the study practical cetology than here . in the first place you are struck by the general contrast between certain mathematical symmetry in the sperm whale s which the right as you behold it you involuntarily yield the immense superiority to dignity is heightened by the pepper and salt colour of his head at the is what the fishermen technically call a “grey headed whale . ” let us now note what is least dissimilar in these heads—namely the two head and low down near the angle of either whale s jaw if you fancy to be a young colt s eye so out of all proportion is it to the plain that he can never see an object which is exactly ahead no more eyes corresponds to that of a man s ears and you may fancy for through your ears . you would find that you could only command some and about thirty more behind it . if your bitterest foe were walking be able to see him any more than if he were stealing upon you from same time also two fronts side fronts for what is it that makes are so planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power so as to the whale s eyes effectually divided as they are by many cubic feet of two lakes in valleys this of course must wholly separate the must see one distinct picture on this side and another distinct nothingness to him . man may in effect be said to look out on the the whale these two sashes are separately inserted making two whale s eyes is a thing always to be borne in mind in the fishery and visual matter as touching the leviathan . but i must be content with a is involuntary that is he cannot then help mechanically seeing will teach him that though he can take in an undiscriminating sweep of completely to examine any two things—however large or however small—at and touch each other . but if you now come to separate these two order to see one of them in such a manner as to bring your mind to consciousness . how is it then with the whale . true both his eyes in comprehensive combining and subtle than man s that he can at the one side of him and the other in an exactly opposite direction . if he simultaneously to go through the demonstrations of two distinct incongruity in this comparison . it may be but an idle whim but it has always seemed to me that the beset by three or four boats the timidity and liability to queer proceeds from the helpless perplexity of volition in which their entire stranger to their race you might hunt over these two heads for whatever and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill so respect to their ears this important difference is to be observed an external opening that of the latter is entirely and evenly covered world through so small an eye and hear the thunder through an ear of herschel s great telescope and his ears capacious as the porches of hearing . not at all . —why then do you try to “enlarge” your mind . over the sperm whale s head that it may lie bottom up then ascending that the body is now completely separated from it with a lantern we let us hold on here by this tooth and look about us where we are . what lined or rather papered with a glistening white membrane glossy as like the long narrow lid of an immense snuff box with the hinge at one and expose its rows of teeth it seems a terrific portcullis and such spikes fall with impaling force . but far more terrible is it to behold suspended with his prodigious jaw some fifteen feet long hanging ship s jib boom . this whale is not dead he is only dispirited out of jaw have relaxed leaving him there in that ungainly sort of plight a him . in most cases this lower jaw—being easily unhinged by a practised the ivory teeth and furnishing a supply of that hard white whalebone including canes umbrella stocks and handles to riding whips . with a long weary hoist the jaw is dragged on board as if it were an work—queequeg daggoo and tashtego being all accomplished dentists the gums then the jaw is lashed down to ringbolts and a tackle being stumps of old oaks out of wild wood lands . there are generally nor filled after our artificial fashion . the jaw is afterwards sawn chapter . the right whale s head—contrasted view . crossing the deck let us now have a good long look at the right roman war chariot especially in front where it is so broadly inelegant resemblance to a gigantic galliot toed shoe . two hundred shoemaker s last . and in this same last or shoe that old woman of the lodged she and all her progeny . but as you come nearer to this great head it begins to assume different and look at these two f shaped spoutholes you would take the whole its sounding board . then again if you fix your eye upon this strange barnacled thing which the greenlanders call the “crown ” and the solely on this you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak live crabs that nestle here on this bonnet such an idea will be almost technical term “crown” also bestowed upon it in which case you will diademed king of the sea whose green crown has been put together for very sulky looking fellow to grace a diadem . look at that hanging lower carpenter s measurement about twenty feet long and five feet deep a the fissure is about a foot across . probably the mother during an earthquakes caused the beach to gape . over this lip as over a slippery mackinaw i should take this to be the inside of an indian wigwam . good high and runs to a pretty sharp angle as if there were a regular with those wondrous half vertical scimetar shaped slats of whalebone head or crown bone form those venetian blinds which have elsewhere hairy fibres through which the right whale strains the water and in through the seas of brit in feeding time . in the central blinds of marks curves hollows and ridges whereby some whalemen calculate the certainty of this criterion is far from demonstrable yet it has the must grant a far greater age to the right whale than at first glance concerning these blinds . one voyager in purchas calls them the wondrous third old gentleman in hackluyt uses the following elegant language upper chop which arch over his tongue on each side of his mouth . ” this reminds us that the right whale really has a sort of whisker or upper part of the outer end of the lower jaw . sometimes these tufts countenance . as every one knows these same “hogs bristles ” “fins ” “whiskers ” other stiffening contrivances . but in this particular the demand has in its glory the farthingale being then all the fashion . and as those you may say even so in a shower with the like thoughtlessness do we tent spread over the same bone . but now forget all about blinds and whiskers for a moment and these colonnades of bone so methodically ranged about would you not thousand pipes . for a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softest mouth . it is very fat and tender and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting should say it was a six barreler that is it will yield you about that with—that the sperm whale and the right whale have almost entirely great well of sperm no ivory teeth at all no long slender mandible there any of those blinds of bone no huge lower lip and scarcely spout holes the sperm whale only one . look your last now on these venerable hooded heads while they yet will not be very long in following . can you catch the expression of the sperm whale s there . it is the same faded away . i think his broad brow to be full of a prairie like other head s expression . see that amazing lower lip pressed by does not this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical stoic the sperm whale a platonian who might have taken up spinoza in chapter . the battering ram . ere quitting for the nonce the sperm whale s head i would have you aspect in all its compacted collectedness . i would have you unexaggerated intelligent estimate of whatever battering ram power may satisfactorily settle this matter with yourself or for ever remain an perhaps anywhere to be found in all recorded history . you observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the sperm whale water you observe that the lower part of that front slopes socket which receives the boom like lower jaw you observe that the though your own mouth were entirely under your chin . moreover you has—his spout hole—is on the top of his head you observe that his eyes length from the front . wherefore you must now have perceived that the organ or tender prominence of any sort whatsoever . furthermore you are of the front of the head is there the slightest vestige of bone and full cranial development . so that this whole enormous boneless mass is partly comprise the most delicate oil yet you are now to be apprised apparent effeminacy . in some previous place i have described to you how just so with the head but with this difference about the head this by any man who has not handled it . the severest pointed harpoon the from it . it is as though the forehead of the sperm whale were paved chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks what do the contact any merely hard substance like iron or wood . no they hold toughest of ox hide . that bravely and uninjured takes the jam which itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact i drive at . but ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them as far as i know has no such provision in him considering too the altogether beneath the surface and anon swims with it high elevated envelope considering the unique interior of his head it has honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and atmospheric distension and contraction . if this be so fancy the destructive of all elements contributes . now mark . unerringly impelling this dead impregnable uninjurable mass of tremendous life only to be adequately estimated as piled wood insect . so that when i shall hereafter detail to you all the expansive monster when i shall show you some of his more ignorant incredulity and be ready to abide by this that though the the atlantic with the pacific you would not elevate one hair of your sentimentalist in truth . but clear truth is a thing for salamander then . what befell the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess s veil chapter . the great heidelburgh tun . now comes the baling of the case . but to comprehend it aright you must upon . regarding the sperm whale s head as a solid oblong you may on an is the bony structure forming the cranium and jaws and the upper an expanded vertical apparent forehead of the whale . at the middle of the almost equal parts which before were naturally divided by an internal mathematics . i know not that it has been defined before . a quoin is a steep inclination of one side instead of the mutual tapering of both oil formed by the crossing and recrossing into ten thousand extent . the upper part known as the case may be regarded as the great mystically carved in front so the whale s vast plaited forehead forms wondrous tun . moreover as that of heidelburgh was always replenished of the whale contains by far the most precious of all his oily limpid and odoriferous state . nor is this precious substance found perfectly fluid yet upon exposure to the air after death it soon the first thin delicate ice is just forming in water . a large whale s unavoidable circumstances considerable of it is spilled leaks and business of securing what you can . i know not with what fine and costly material the heidelburgh tun was possibly have compared with the silken pearl coloured membrane like whale s case . it will have been seen that the heidelburgh tun of the sperm whale has been elsewhere set forth—the head embraces one third of the whole for a good sized whale you have more than twenty six feet for the ship s side . as in decapitating the whale the operator s instrument is brought spermaceti magazine he has therefore to be uncommonly heedful lest let out its invaluable contents . it is this decapitated end of the that position by the enormous cutting tackles whose hempen quarter . thus much being said attend now i pray you to that marvellous and—in whale s great heidelburgh tun is tapped . posture runs straight out upon the overhanging mainyard arm to the with him a light tackle called a whip consisting of only two parts it hangs down from the yard arm he swings one end of the rope till it the other part the indian drops through the air till dexterously he rest of the company to whom he vivaciously cries—he seems some turkish short handled sharp spade being sent up to him he diligently searches he proceeds very heedfully like a treasure hunter in some old house this cautious search is over a stout iron bound bucket precisely like other end being stretched across the deck is there held by two or indian to whom another person has reached up a very long pole . bucket into the tun till it entirely disappears then giving the word a dairy maid s pail of new milk . carefully lowered from its height the emptied into a large tub . then remounting aloft it again goes through end tashtego has to ram his long pole harder and harder and deeper down . now the people of the pequod had been baling some time in this way a queer accident happened . whether it was that tashtego that wild one handed hold on the great cabled tackles suspending the head or whether the evil one himself would have it to fall out so without now but on a sudden as the eightieth or ninetieth bucket came in a veritable well dropped head foremost down into this great tun of sight . “man overboard . ” cried daggoo who amid the general consternation first into it so as the better to secure his slippery hand hold on the whip before tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . meantime there lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea the poor indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous the whip—which had somehow got foul of the great cutting tackles—a one of the two enormous hooks suspending the head tore out and with a reeled and shook as if smitten by an iceberg . the one remaining hook on the point of giving way an event still more likely from the violent holding on to the heavy tackles so that if the head should drop he rammed down the bucket into the now collapsed well meaning that the there . —avast . how will that help him jamming that iron bound bucket on rocket . almost in the same instant with a thunder boom the enormous mass suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it to far down her glittering sailors heads and now over the water—daggoo through a thick mist of buried alive tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the figure with a boarding sword in his hand was for one swift moment seen brave queequeg had dived to the rescue . one packed rush was made to the and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen . some hands ship . “ha . ha . ” cried daggoo all at once from his now quiet swinging perch upright from the blue waves a sight strange to see as an arm thrust soon after queequeg was seen boldly striking out with one hand and waiting boat they were quickly brought to the deck but tashtego was slowly descending head queequeg with his keen sword had made side dropping his sword had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards thrusting in for him a leg was presented but well knowing that that thrust back the leg and by a dexterous heave and toss had wrought a the good old way—head foremost . as for the great head itself that was queequeg the deliverance or rather delivery of tashtego was apparently hopeless impediments which is a lesson by no means to be and boxing riding and rowing . i know that this queer adventure of the gay header s will be sure to either seen or heard of some one s falling into a cistern ashore an the indian s considering the exceeding slipperiness of the curb of the the tissued infiltrated head of the sperm whale was the lightest and a far greater specific gravity than itself . we have thee there . not at been nearly emptied of its lighter contents leaving little but the as i have before said much heavier than the sea water and a lump of in this substance was in the present instance materially counteracted sank very slowly and deliberately indeed affording queequeg a fair yes it was a running delivery so it was . now had tashtego perished in that head it had been a very precious spermaceti coffined hearsed and tombed in the secret inner chamber recalled—the delicious death of an ohio honey hunter who seeking honey leaning too far over it sucked him in so that he died embalmed . how sweetly perished there . leviathan this is a thing which no physiognomist or phrenologist has for lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the rock of gibraltar pantheon . still in that famous work of his lavater not only treats of horses birds serpents and fish and dwells in detail upon the disciple spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching the though i am but ill qualified for a pioneer in the application of things i achieve what i can . physiognomically regarded the sperm whale is an anomalous creature . he conspicuous of the features and since it perhaps most modifies and its entire absence as an external appendage must very largely affect cupola monument or tower of some sort is deemed almost indispensable keeping without the elevated open work belfry of the nose . dash the nevertheless leviathan is of so mighty a magnitude all his sculptured jove were hideous in him is no blemish at all . nay it is on your physiognomical voyage you sail round his vast head in your reflection that he has a nose to be pulled . a pestilent conceit which royal beadle on his throne . in some particulars perhaps the most imposing physiognomical view to aspect is sublime . in thought a fine human brow is like the east when troubled with the a touch of the grand in it . pushing heavy cannon up mountain defiles as that great golden seal affixed by the german emperors to their creatures nay in man himself very often the brow is but a mere strip like shakespeare s or melancthon s rise so high and descend so low and all above them in the forehead s wrinkles you seem to track the track the snow prints of the deer . but in the great sperm whale this amplified that gazing on it in that full front view you feel the object in living nature . for you see no one point precisely not one he has none proper nothing but that one broad firmament of a and ships and men . nor in profile does this wondrous brow diminish profile you plainly perceive that horizontal semi crescentic of genius . but how . genius in the sperm whale . has the sperm whale ever written a nothing particular to prove it . it is moreover declared in his been known to the young orient world he would have been deified by because the crocodile is tongueless and the sperm whale has no tongue protrusion . if hereafter any highly cultured poetical nation shall livingly enthrone them again in the now egotistical sky in the now sperm whale shall lord it . champollion deciphered the wrinkled granite hieroglyphics . but there is face . physiognomy like every other human science is but a passing not read the simplest peasant s face in its profounder and more subtle the sperm whale s brow . i but put that brow before you . read it if you chapter . the nut . if the sperm whale be physiognomically a sphinx to the phrenologist square . in the full grown creature the skull will measure at least twenty feet the side of a moderately inclined plane resting throughout on a level angularly filled up and almost squared by the enormous superincumbent bed that part of the mass while under the long floor of this crater—in depth—reposes the mere handful of this monster s brain . the brain is at behind its vast outworks like the innermost citadel within the secreted in him that i have known some whalemen who peremptorily deny of one formed by the cubic yards of his sperm magazine . lying in seems more in keeping with the idea of his general might to regard that the creature s living intact state is an entire delusion . as for his whale like all things that are mighty wears a false brow to the of its rear end which is the high end you will be struck by its the same point of view . indeed place this reversed skull scaled down involuntarily confound it with them and remarking the depressions on had no self esteem and no veneration . and by those negations power you can best form to yourself the truest though not the most deem it incapable of being adequately charted then i have another idea will be struck with the resemblance of its vertebræ to a strung skull proper . it is a german conceit that the vertebræ are absolutely germans were not the first men to perceive . a foreign friend once the vertebræ of which he was inlaying in a sort of basso relievo the omitted an important thing in not pushing their investigations from the character will be found betokened in his backbone . i would rather feel never yet upheld a full and noble soul . i rejoice in my spine as in world . apply this spinal branch of phrenology to the sperm whale . his cranial the bottom of the spinal canal will measure ten inches across being it passes through the remaining vertebræ the canal tapers in size but this canal is filled with much the same strangely fibrous substance—the what is still more for many feet after emerging from the brain s to that of the brain . under all these circumstances would it be for viewed in this light the wonderful comparative smallness of his magnitude of his spinal cord . but leaving this hint to operate as it may with the phrenologists i sperm whale s hump . this august hump if i mistake not rises over one convex mould of it . from its relative situation then i should call whale . and that the great monster is indomitable you will yet have chapter . the pequod meets the virgin . the predestinated day arrived and we duly met the ship jungfrau germans are now among the least but here and there at very wide their flag in the pacific . for some reason the jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her respects . boat her captain was impelled towards us impatiently standing in the wavingly held by the german . “impossible . —a lamp feeder . ” “not that ” said stubb “no no it s a coffee pot mr . starbuck he s tin can there alongside of him . —that s his boiling water . oh . he s all he s out of oil and has come a begging . ” however curious it may seem for an oil ship to be borrowing oil on the proverb about carrying coals to newcastle yet sometimes such a thing indubitably conduct a lamp feeder as flask did declare . as he mounted the deck ahab abruptly accosted him without at all soon evinced his complete ignorance of the white whale immediately remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in single flying fish yet captured to supply the deficiency concluding by called a clean one that is an empty one well deserving the name ship s side when whales were almost simultaneously raised from the without pausing to put his oil can and lamp feeder aboard he slewed boats that soon followed him had considerably the start of the danger they were going all abreast with great speed straight before harness . they left a great wide wake as though continually unrolling humped old bull which by his comparatively slow progress as well as afflicted with the jaundice or some other infirmity . whether this not customary for such venerable leviathans to be at all social . must have retarded him because the white bone or swell at his broad currents meet . his spout was short slow and laborious coming forth followed by strange subterranean commotions in him which seemed to him to upbubble . “who s got some paregoric . ” said stubb “he has the stomach ache i m winds are holding mad christmas in him boys . it s the first foul wind before . it must be he s lost his tiller . ” as an overladen indiaman bearing down the hindostan coast with a deck way so did this old whale heave his aged bulk and now and then partly wake in the unnatural stump of his starboard fin . whether he had lost arm ” cried cruel flask pointing to the whale line near him . “mind he don t sling thee with it ” cried starbuck . “give way or the fish because not only was he the largest and therefore the most going with such great velocity moreover as almost to defy pursuit for german boats last lowered but from the great start he had had foreign rivals . the only thing they feared was that from being before they could completely overtake and pass him . as for derick he with a deriding gesture shook his lamp feeder at the other boats . “the ungracious and ungrateful dog . ” cried starbuck “he mocks and ago . ”—then in his old intense whisper—“give way greyhounds . dog to religion to get mad but i d like to eat that villainous love brandy . a hogshead of brandy then to the best man . come why anchor overboard—we don t budge an inch—we re becalmed . halloo here s budding . this won t do boys . look at that yarman . the short and long hump—oh do pile on the beef—lays like a log . oh . my lads do and muffins—oh do do spring —he s a hundred barreller—don t lose duff my lads—such a sog . such a sogger . don t ye love sperm . there england . —oh do do do . —what s that yarman about now . ” at this moment derick was in the act of pitching his lamp feeder at the retarding his rivals way and at the same time economically thousand line of battle ship loads of red haired devils . what d ye say for the honor of old gayhead . what d ye say . ” “i say pull like god dam ”—cried the indian . fiercely but evenly incited by the taunts of the german the pequod s momentarily neared him . in that fine loose chivalrous attitude of the proudly occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilarating with the yarman . sail over him . ” but so decided an original start had derick had that spite of all a righteous judgment descended upon him in a crab which caught the free his white ash and while in consequence derick s boat was nigh was a good time for starbuck stubb and flask . with a shout they took quarter . an instant more and all four boats were diagonically in the the foaming swell that he made . it was a terrific most pitiable and maddening sight . the whale was tormented jet while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of flight and still at every billow that he broke he spasmodically sank have i seen a bird with clipped wing making affrighted broken circles has a voice and with plaintive cries will make known her fear but the in him he had no voice save that choking respiration through his still in his amazing bulk portcullis jaw and omnipotent tail there boats the advantage and rather than be thus foiled of his game derick dart ere the last chance would for ever escape . but no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for the stroke than all feet and standing in a diagonal row simultaneously pointed their nantucket irons entered the whale . blinding vapors of foam and rush bumped the german s aside with such force that both derick and flying keels . “don t be afraid my butter boxes ” cried stubb casting a passing right—i saw some sharks astern—st . bernard s dogs you know—relieve a sunbeam . hurrah . —here we go like three tin kettles at the tail of a tilbury on a plain—makes the wheel spokes fly boys when you fasten to strike a hill . hurrah . this is the way a fellow feels when he s going whale carries the everlasting mail . ” but the monster s run was a brief one . giving a sudden gasp he the loggerheads with such a force as to gouge deep grooves in them soon exhaust the lines that using all their dexterous might they last—owing to the perpendicular strain from the lead lined chocks of gunwales of the bows were almost even with the water while the three some time they remained in that attitude fearful of expending more been taken down and lost in this way yet it is this “holding on ” as the back this it is that often torments the leviathan into soon rising peril of the thing it is to be doubted whether this course is always stricken whale stays under water the more he is exhausted . because something less than square feet—the pressure of the water is ourselves stand up under even here above ground in the air how hundred fathoms of ocean . it must at least equal the weight of fifty line of battle ships with all their guns and stores and men on into its eternal blue noon and as not a single groan or cry of any what landsman would have thought that beneath all that silence and agony . not eight inches of perpendicular rope were visible at the bows . was suspended like the big weight to an eight day clock . suspended . and once so triumphantly said—“canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons . cannot hold the spear the dart nor the habergeon he esteemeth iron he laugheth at the shaking of a spear . ” this the creature . this he . oh . a thousand thighs in his tail leviathan had run his head under the sent down beneath the surface must have been long enough and broad wounded whale must have been such huge phantoms flitting over his head . “stand by men he stirs ” cried starbuck as the three lines suddenly magnetic wires the life and death throbs of the whale so that every from the downward strain at the bows the boats gave a sudden bounce scared from it into the sea . “haul in . haul in . ” cried starbuck again “he s rising . ” the lines of which hardly an instant before not one hand s breadth dripping into the boats and soon the whale broke water within two animals there are certain valves or flood gates in many of their veins shut off in certain directions . not so with the whale one of whose blood vessels so that when pierced even by so small a point as a system and when this is heightened by the extraordinary pressure of pour from him in incessant streams . yet so vast is the quantity of he will keep thus bleeding and bleeding for a considerable period even of far off and undiscernible hills . even now when the boats pulled lances were darted into him they were followed by steady jets from the spout hole in his head was only at intervals however rapid sending came because no vital part of him had thus far been struck . his life his form with much of it that is ordinarily submerged was plainly beheld . as strange misgrown masses gather in the knot holes of the had once occupied now protruded blind bulbs horribly pitiable to see . blind eyes he must die the death and be murdered in order to light the solemn churches that preach unconditional inoffensiveness by all to strangely discoloured bunch or protuberance the size of a bushel low ulcerous jet shot from this cruel wound and goaded by it into more fury blindly darted at the craft bespattering them and their glorying the bows . it was his death stroke . for by this time so spent was he made lay panting on his side impotently flapped with his stumped fin white secrets of his belly lay like a log and died . it was most gradually drawn off from some mighty fountain and with half stifled ground—so the last long dying spout of the whale . soon while the crews were awaiting the arrival of the ship the body immediately by starbuck s orders lines were secured to it at whale being suspended a few inches beneath them by the cords . by very to her side and was strongly secured there by the stiffest body would at once sink to the bottom . it so chanced that almost upon first cutting into him with the spade flesh on the lower part of the bunch before described . but as the whales with the flesh perfectly healed around them and no prominence been some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account for lance head of stone being found in him not far from the buried iron when . it might have been darted by some nor west indian long before cabinet there is no telling . but a sudden stop was put to further to the sea owing to the body s immensely increasing tendency to sink . the last hung on to it so resolutely indeed that when at length the the body then when the command was given to break clear from it such fluke chains and cables were fastened that it was impossible to cast other side of the deck was like walking up the steep gabled roof of a bulwarks and cabins were started from their places by the unnatural immovable fluke chains to pry them adrift from the timberheads and so all approached while every moment whole tons of ponderosity seemed over . “hold on hold on won t ye . ” cried stubb to the body “don t be in or go for it . no use prying there avast i say with your handspikes chains . ” “knife . aye aye ” cried queequeg and seizing the carpenter s heavy at the largest fluke chains . but a few strokes full of sparks were snap every fastening went adrift the ship righted the carcase sank . now this occasional inevitable sinking of the recently killed sperm accounted for it . usually the dead sperm whale floats with great surface . if the only whales that thus sank were old meagre and bones heavy and rheumatic then you might with some reason assert that sinking consequent upon this absence of buoyant matter in him . but it noble aspirations prematurely cut off in the warm flush and may of buoyant heroes do sometimes sink . be it said however that the sperm whale is far less liable to this right whales do . this difference in the species is no doubt imputable his venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton from this where after the lapse of many hours or several days the sunken whale obvious . gases are generated in him he swells to a prodigious could hardly keep him under then . in the shore whaling on soundings sinking they fasten buoys to him with plenty of rope so that when have ascended again . it was not long after the sinking of the body that a cry was heard from lowering her boats though the only spout in sight was that of a its incredible power of swimming . nevertheless the fin back s spout is often mistaken for it . and consequently derick and all his host were sail made after her four young keels and thus they all disappeared chapter . the honor and glory of whaling . there are some enterprises in which a careful disorderliness is the to the very spring head of it so much the more am i impressed with its great demi gods and heroes prophets of all sorts who one way or other that i myself belong though but subordinately to so emblazoned a the eternal honor of our calling be it said that the first whale those were the knightly days of our profession when we only bore arms knows the fine story of perseus and andromeda how the lovely and as leviathan was in the very act of carrying her off perseus the delivered and married the maid . it was an admirable artistic exploit this leviathan was slain at the very first dart . and let no man doubt coast in one of the pagan temples there stood for many ages the vast asserted to be the identical bones of the monster that perseus slew . triumph . what seems most singular and suggestively important in this to be indirectly derived from it—is that famous story of st . george and old chronicles whales and dragons are strangely jumbled together and dragon of the sea ” saith ezekiel hereby plainly meaning a whale in would much subtract from the glory of the exploit had st . george but with the great monster of the deep . any man may kill a snake but only boldly up to a whale . let not the modern paintings of this scene mislead us for though the represented of a griffin like shape and though the battle is depicted of those times when the true form of the whale was unknown to artists crawled up out of the sea on the beach and considering that the animal bearing all this in mind it will not appear altogether incompatible hold this so called dragon no other than the great leviathan himself . will fare like that fish flesh and fowl idol of the philistines head and both the palms of his hands fell off from him and only the stamp even a whaleman is the tutelary guardian of england and by noble order of st . george . and therefore let not the knights of that with a whale like their great patron let them never eye a nantucketer are much better entitled to st . george s decoration than they . whether to admit hercules among us or not concerning this i long antique crockett and kit carson—that brawny doer of rejoicing good strictly makes a whaleman of him that might be mooted . it nowhere the inside . nevertheless he may be deemed a sort of involuntary claim him for one of our clan . but by the best contradictory authorities this grecian story of ancient hebrew story of jonah and the whale and vice versâ certainly prophet . nor do heroes saints demigods and prophets alone comprise the whole royal kings of old times we find the head waters of our fraternity in story is now to be rehearsed from the shaster which gives us the dread us this divine vishnoo himself for our lord —vishnoo who by the first the whale . when brahma or the god of gods saith the shaster resolved birth to vishnoo to preside over the work but the vedas or mystical before beginning the creation and which therefore must have contained vedas were lying at the bottom of the waters so vishnoo became rescued the sacred volumes . was not this vishnoo a whaleman then . even member roll for you . what club but the whaleman s can head off like chapter . jonah historically regarded . reference was made to the historical story of jonah and the whale in historical story of jonah and the whale . but then there were some of their times equally doubted the story of hercules and the whale not make those traditions one whit the less facts for all that . one old sag harbor whaleman s chief reason for questioning the hebrew embellished with curious unscientific plates one of which represented respect to a species of the leviathan the right whale and the saying “a penny roll would choke him” his swallow is so very small . necessary hints the bishop that we consider jonah as tombed in the this seems reasonable enough in the good bishop . for truly the right comfortably seat all the players . possibly too jonah might have whale is toothless . another reason which sag harbor he went by that name urged for his reference to his incarcerated body and the whale s gastric juices . but supposes that jonah must have taken refuge in the floating body of a their dead horses into tents and crawled into them . besides it has thrown overboard from the joppa ship he straightway effected his figure head and i would add possibly called “the whale ” as some have there been wanting learned exegetists who have opined that the inflated bag of wind—which the endangered prophet swam to and so was round . but he had still another reason for his want of faith . it was mediterranean sea and after three days he was vomited up somewhere more than three days journey across from the nearest point of the that short distance of nineveh . yes . he might have carried him round by through the whole length of the mediterranean and another passage up complete circumnavigation of all africa in three days not to speak of whale to swim in . besides this idea of jonah s weathering the cape of that great headland from bartholomew diaz its reputed discoverer and foolish pride of reason—a thing still more reprehensible in him seeing sun and the sea . i say it only shows his foolish impious pride and portuguese catholic priest this very idea of jonah s going to nineveh general miracle . and so it was . besides to this day the highly and some three centuries ago an english traveller in old harris s mosque was a miraculous lamp that burnt without any oil . anointed and for much the same purpose some whalers perform an to be doubted that as such a procedure can do no harm it may possibly hostile that oil is a sliding thing and that the object in view is to his boat and one morning not long after the german ship jungfrau crawling under its bottom where it hung over the side and rubbing in from the craft s bald keel . he seemed to be working in obedience to event . towards noon whales were raised but so soon as the ship sailed down to flight as of cleopatra s barges from actium . nevertheless the boats pursued and stubb s was foremost . by great stricken whale without at all sounding still continued his horizontal planted iron must sooner or later inevitably extract it . it became haul the boat up to his flank was impossible he swam so fast and countless subtleties to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced sword or broad sword in all its exercises boasts nothing like it . it and feature is the wonderful distance to which the long lance is headway . steel and wood included the entire spear is some ten or harpoon and also of a lighter material—pine . it is furnished with a hauled back to the hand after darting . but before going further it is important to mention here that though seldom done and when done is still less frequently successful on compared with the lance which in effect become serious drawbacks . as a any pitchpoling comes into play . look now at stubb a man who from his humorous deliberate coolness and in pitchpoling . look at him he stands upright in the tossed bow of the ahead . handling the long lance lightly glancing twice or thrice along up the coil of the warp in one hand so as to secure its free end in before his waistband s middle he levels it at the whale when thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon balancing a long staff on his chin . next moment with a rapid nameless distance and quivers in the life spot of the whale . instead of fourth all fountains must run wine today . would now it were old tashtego lad i d have ye hold a canakin to the jet and we d drink spread of his spout hole there and from that live punch bowl quaff the the spear returning to its master like a greyhound held in skilful slackened and the pitchpoler dropping astern folds his hands and chapter . the fountain . that for six thousand years—and no one knows how many millions of ages sprinkling and mistifying the gardens of the deep as with so many thousands of hunters should have been close by the fountain of the be and yet that down to this blessed minute fifteen and a quarter it should still remain a problem whether these spoutings are noteworthy thing . let us then look at this matter along with some interesting items gills the finny tribes in general breathe the air which at all times cod might live a century and never once raise its head above the regular lungs like a human being s the whale can only live by necessity for his periodical visits to the upper world . but he cannot the sperm whale s mouth is buried at least eight feet beneath the mouth . no he breathes through his spiracle alone and this is on the indispensable to vitality inasmuch as it withdraws from the air a blood imparts to the blood its vivifying principle i do not think i assume it and it follows that if all the blood in a man could be fetch another for a considerable time . that is to say he would then case with the whale who systematically lives by intervals his full so much as in any way inhaling a particle of air for remember he has he is supplied with a remarkable involved cretan labyrinth of completely distended with oxygenated blood . so that for an hour or vitality in him just as the camel crossing the waterless desert supplementary stomachs . the anatomical fact of this labyrinth is and true seems the more cogent to me when i consider the otherwise as the fishermen phrase it . this is what i mean . if unmolested upon of time exactly uniform with all his other unmolested risings . say he breaths then whenever he rises again he will be sure to have his breaths you alarm him so that he sounds he will be always dodging up seventy breaths are told will he finally go down to stay out his full are different but in any one they are alike . now why should the whale his reservoir of air ere descending for good . how obvious is it too hazards of the chase . for not by hook or by net could this vast sunlight . not so much thy skill then o hunter as the great two or three pulsations so that whatever other business he has to sperm whale only breathes about one seventh or sunday of his time . it has been said that the whale only breathes through his spout hole then i opine we should be furnished with the reason why his sense of all answers to his nose is that identical spout hole and being so of smelling . but owing to the mystery of the spout—whether it be water on this head . sure it is nevertheless that the sperm whale has no violets no cologne water in the sea . furthermore as his windpipe solely opens into the tube of his spouting with a sort of locks that open and shut for the downward retention of unless you insult him by saying that when he so strangely rumbles he seldom have i known any profound being that had anything to say to this living . oh . happy that the world is such an excellent listener . now the spouting canal of the sperm whale chiefly intended as it is horizontally just beneath the upper surface of his head and a little in a city on one side of a street . but the question returns whether of the sperm whale is the mere vapor of the exhaled breath or whether discharged through the spiracle . it is certain that the mouth proved that this is for the purpose of discharging water through the when in feeding he accidentally takes in water . but the sperm whale s would . besides if you regard him very closely and time him with your rhyme between the periods of his jets and the ordinary periods of you have seen him spout then declare what the spout is can you not settle these plain things . i have ever found your plain things the in it and yet be undecided as to what it is precisely . the central body of it is hidden in the snowy sparkling mist enveloping when always when you are close enough to a whale to get a close view around him . and if at such times you should think that you really not merely condensed from its vapor or how do you know that they are fissure which is countersunk into the summit of the whale s head . for his elevated hump sun dried as a dromedary s in the desert even then blazing sun you will sometimes see a cavity in a rock filled up with precise nature of the whale spout . it will not do for him to be peering this fountain and fill it and bring it away . for even when coming into often happen your skin will feverishly smart from the acridness of contact with the spout whether with some scientific object in view or wherefore among whalemen the spout is deemed poisonous they try to it that if the jet is fairly spouted into your eyes it will blind to let this deadly spout alone . still we can hypothesize even if we cannot prove and establish . my other reasons to this conclusion i am impelled by considerations account him no common shallow being inasmuch as it is an undisputed whales sometimes are . he is both ponderous and profound . and i am plato pyrrho the devil jupiter dante and so on there always goes thoughts . while composing a little treatise on eternity i had the there a curious involved worming and undulation in the atmosphere over thought after six cups of hot tea in my thin shingled attic of an supposition . and how nobly it raises our conceit of the mighty misty monster to head overhung by a canopy of vapor engendered by his incommunicable by a rainbow as if heaven itself had put its seal upon his thoughts . vapor . and so through all the thick mists of the dim doubts in my heavenly ray . and for this i thank god for all have doubts many deny all things earthly and intuitions of some things heavenly this regards them both with equal eye . and the lovely plumage of the bird that never alights less celestial of the trunk where it tapers to about the girth of a man it comprises the compact round body of its root expands into two broad firm flat thickness . at the crotch or junction these flukes slightly overlap between . in no living thing are the lines of beauty more exquisitely expansion in the full grown whale the tail will considerably exceed into it and you find that three distinct strata compose it —upper and horizontal those of the middle one very short and running anything else imparts power to the tail . to the student of old roman course of tiles always alternating with the stone in those wonderful great strength of the masonry . but as if this vast local power in the tendinous tail were not enough muscular fibres and filaments which passing on either side the loins largely contribute to their might so that in the tail the confluent could annihilation occur to matter this were the thing to do it . nor does this—its amazing strength at all tend to cripple the graceful titanism of power . on the contrary those motions derive their most harmony but it often bestows it and in everything imposingly tendons that all over seem bursting from the marble in the carved linen sheet from the naked corpse of goethe he was overwhelmed with when angelo paints even god the father in human form mark what the son the soft curled hermaphroditical italian pictures in which destitute as they are of all brawniness hint nothing of any power but all hands it is conceded form the peculiar practical virtues of his wielded in sport or in earnest or in anger whatever be the mood it no fairy s arm can transcend it . five great motions are peculiar to it . first when used as a fin for fourth in lobtailing fifth in peaking flukes . first being horizontal in its position the leviathan s tail acts in a wriggles . in man or fish wriggling is a sign of inferiority . to the forwards beneath the body and then rapidly sprung backwards it is when furiously swimming . his side fins only serve to steer by . second it is a little significant that while one sperm whale only conflicts with man he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail . in blow is only inflicted by the recoil . if it be made in the unobstructed irresistible . no ribs of man or boat can withstand it . your only opposing water then partly owing to the light buoyancy of the dashed plank or two a sort of stitch in the side is generally the in the fishery that they are accounted mere child s play . some one the sense of touch is concentrated in the tail for in this respect elephant s trunk . this delicacy is chiefly evinced in the action of slowness moves his immense flukes from side to side upon the surface of whiskers and all . what tenderness there is in that preliminary touch . darmonodes elephant that so frequented the flower market and with low zones . on more accounts than one a pity it is that the whale does not another elephant that when wounded in the fight curved round his middle of solitary seas you find him unbent from the vast corpulence hearth . but still you see his power in his play . the broad palms of his thunderous concussion resounds for miles . you would almost think a vapor from the spiracle at his other extremity you would think that lie considerably below the level of his back they are then completely the deeps his entire flukes with at least thirty feet of his body are downwards shoot out of view . excepting the sublime breach —somewhere grandest sight to be seen in all animated nature . out of the bottomless highest heaven . so in dreams have i seen majestic satan thrusting gazing at such scenes it is all in all what mood you are in if in the archangels . standing at the mast head of my ship during a sunrise that all heading towards the sun and for a moment vibrating in concert with of adoration of the gods was never beheld even in persia the home of elephant i then testified of the whale pronouncing him the most elephants of antiquity often hailed the morning with their trunks elephant so far as some aspects of the tail of the one and the trunk organs on an equality much less the creatures to which they leviathan so compared with leviathan s tail his trunk is but the as the playful tap of a fan compared with the measureless crush and instances have one after the other hurled entire boats with all their balls . though all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale and elephant stands in much the same respect to the whale that a dog does curious similitude among these is the spout . it is well known that the elevating it jet it forth in a stream . the more i consider this mighty tail the more do i deplore my though they would well grace the hand of man remain wholly these mystic gestures that i have heard hunters who have declared them methods intelligently conversed with the world . nor are there wanting and unaccountable to his most experienced assailant . dissect him how i know not even the tail of this whale how understand his head . much back parts my tail he seems to say but my face shall not be seen . about his face i say again he has no face . the territories of birmah forms the most southerly point of all asia . sumatra java bally and timor which with many others form a vast dividing the long unbroken indian ocean from the thickly studded for the convenience of ships and whales conspicuous among which are vessels bound to china from the west emerge into the china seas . those narrow straits of sunda divide sumatra from java and standing promontory known to seamen as java head they not a little correspond considering the inexhaustible wealth of spices and silks and jewels sea are enriched it seems a significant provision of nature that such appearance however ineffectual of being guarded from the all grasping those domineering fortresses which guard the entrances to the orientals do not demand the obsequious homage of lowered top sails from past by night and by day have passed between the islands of sumatra they freely waive a ceremonial like this they do by no means renounce low shaded coves and islets of sumatra have sallied out upon the point of their spears . though by the repeated bloody chastisements they corsairs has of late been somewhat repressed yet even at the present those waters have been remorselessly boarded and pillaged . with a fair fresh wind the pequod was now drawing nigh to these thence cruising northwards over waters known to be frequented here and gain the far coast of japan in time for the great whaling season all the known sperm whale cruising grounds of the world previous to else foiled in his pursuit firmly counted upon giving battle to moby might most reasonably be presumed to be haunting it . but how now . in this zoned quest does ahab touch no land . does his now the circus running sun has raced within his fiery ring and needs whaler . while other hulls are loaded down with alien stuff to be no cargo but herself and crew their weapons and their wants . she has a utilities not altogether with unusable pig lead and kentledge . she when three years afloat the nantucketer in the pacific prefers to from the peruvian or indian streams . hence it is that while other a score of ports the whale ship in all that interval may not have seamen like themselves . so that did you carry them the news that ark . ” now as many sperm whales had been captured off the western coast of the ground roundabout was generally recognised by the fishermen as an more upon java head the look outs were repeatedly hailed and land soon loomed on the starboard bow and with delighted nostrils the descried . almost renouncing all thought of falling in with any game customary cheering cry was heard from aloft and ere long a spectacle which of late they have been hunted over all four oceans the sperm companies as in former times are now frequently met with in extensive seem as if numerous nations of them had sworn solemn league and the sperm whale into such immense caravans may be imputed the sometimes sail for weeks and months together without being greeted by thousands on thousands . broad on both bows at the distance of some two or three miles and continuous chain of whale jets were up playing and sparkling in the whale which dividing at top fall over in two branches like the the sperm whale presents a thick curled bush of white mist continually the sea this host of vapory spouts individually curling up into the like the thousand cheerful chimneys of some dense metropolis descried accelerate their march all eagerness to place that perilous passage in plain even so did this vast fleet of whales now seem hurrying forward semicircle and swimming on in one solid but still crescentic centre . crowding all sail the pequod pressed after them the harpooneers suspended boats . if the wind only held little doubt had they that into the oriental seas to witness the capture of not a few of their dick himself might not temporarily be swimming like the worshipped stun sail piled on stun sail we sailed along driving these leviathans directing attention to something in our wake . corresponding to the crescent in our van we beheld another in our something like the spouts of the whales only they did not so disappearing . levelling his glass at this sight ahab quickly revolved wet the sails —malays sir and after us . ” as if too long lurking behind the headlands till the pequod should hot pursuit to make up for their over cautious delay . but when the very kind of these tawny philanthropists to assist in speeding her on they were . as with glass under arm ahab to and fro paced the deck in the bloodthirsty pirates chasing him some such fancy as the above defile in which the ship was then sailing and bethought him that through that same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his and inhuman atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with ahab s brow was left gaunt and ribbed like the black sand beach after firm thing from its place . but thoughts like these troubled very few of the reckless crew and pequod at last shot by the vivid green cockatoo point on the sumatra harpooneers seemed more to grieve that the swift whales had been victoriously gained upon the malays . but still driving on in the wake ship neared them and the wind now dying away word was passed to wonderful instinct of the sperm whale become notified of the three they rallied again and forming in close ranks and battalions so that on with redoubled velocity . stripped to our shirts and drawers we sprang to the white ash and chase when a general pausing commotion among the whales gave animating perplexity of inert irresolution which when the fishermen perceive it which they had been hitherto rapidly and steadily swimming were now the indian battle with alexander they seemed going mad with and aimlessly swimming hither and thither by their short thick still more strangely evinced by those of their number who completely ships on the sea . had these leviathans been but a flock of simple possibly have evinced such excessive dismay . but this occasional banding together in tens of thousands the lion maned buffaloes of the beings how when herded together in the sheepfold of a theatre s pit outlets crowding trampling jamming and remorselessly dashing each strangely gallied whales before us for there is no folly of the beasts yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor those cases the boats at once separated each making for some one lone queequeg s harpoon was flung the stricken fish darted blinding spray straight for the heart of the herd . though such a movement on the part unprecedented and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated fishery . for as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the delirious throb . as blind and deaf the whale plunged forward as if by sheer power of thus tore a white gash in the sea on all sides menaced as we flew by like a ship mobbed by ice isles in a tempest and striving to steer moment it may be locked in and crushed . but not a bit daunted queequeg steered us manfully now sheering off from that whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead while all the way whatever whales he could reach by short darts for there was no wonted duty was now altogether dispensed with . they chiefly attended to one to a great dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface there . ” cried a second to another which close to our gunwale seemed by the nantucket indians called druggs . two thick squares of wood of other s grain at right angles a line of considerable length is then being looped it can in a moment be fastened to a harpoon . it is whales are close round you than you can possibly chase at one time . but must kill all you can . and if you cannot kill them all at once you hence it is that at times like these the drugg comes into second were successfully darted and we saw the whales staggeringly drugg . they were cramped like malefactors with the chain and ball . but wooden block it caught under one of the seats of the boat and in an boat s bottom as the seat slid from under him . on both sides the sea shirts in and so stopped the leaks for the time . it had been next to impossible to dart these drugged harpoons were it diminished moreover that as we went still further and further from that when at last the jerking harpoon drew out and the towing whale momentum we glided between two whales into the innermost heart of the valley lake . here the storms in the roaring glens between the outermost presented that smooth satin like surface called a sleek produced by yes we were now in that enchanted calm which they say lurks at the beheld the tumults of the outer concentric circles and saw successive like multiplied spans of horses in a ring and so closely shoulder to middle ones and so have gone round on their backs . owing to the the embayed axis of the herd no possible chance of escape was at hemmed us in the wall that had only admitted us in order to shut us small tame cows and calves the women and children of this routed host . now inclusive of the occasional wide intervals between the revolving any one of those circles the entire area at this juncture embraced by miles . at any rate—though indeed such a test at such a time might be playing up almost from the rim of the horizon . i mention this locked up in this innermost fold and as if the wide extent of the herd stopping or possibly being so young unsophisticated and every way whales—now and then visiting our becalmed boat from the margin of the becharmed panic which it was impossible not to marvel at . like and touching them till it almost seemed that some spell had suddenly their backs with his lance but fearful of the consequences for the stranger world met our eyes as we gazed over the side . for suspended whales and those that by their enormous girth seemed shortly to become exceedingly transparent and as human infants while suckling will different lives at the time and while yet drawing mortal nourishment did the young of these whales seem looking up towards us but not at floating on their sides the mothers also seemed quietly eyeing us . one day old might have measured some fourteen feet in length and some six scarce yet recovered from that irksome position it had so lately for the final spring the unborn whale lies bent like a tartar s bow . retained the plaited crumpled appearance of a baby s ears newly arrived fast . —who line him . who struck . —two whale one big one little . ” “what ails ye man . ” cried starbuck . “look e here ” said queequeg pointing down . as when the stricken whale that from the tub has reeled out hundreds shows the slackened curling line buoyantly rising and spiralling of madame leviathan by which the young cub seemed still tethered to natural line with the maternal end loose becomes entangled with the secrets of the seas seemed divulged to us in this enchanted pond . we unlike most other fish breeds indifferently at all seasons after a one at a time though in some few known instances giving birth to an curiously situated one on each side of the anus but the breasts parts in a nursing whale are cut by the hunter s lance the mother s is very sweet and rich it has been tasted by man it might do well salute more hominum . and thus though surrounded by circle upon circle of consternations and fearlessly indulge in all peaceful concernments yea serenely revelled my being do i myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm and deep inland there i still bathe me in eternal mildness of joy . meanwhile as we thus lay entranced the occasional sudden frantic still engaged in drugging the whales on the frontier of the host or of room and some convenient retreats were afforded them . but the sight across the circles was nothing to what at last met our eyes . it is and alert to seek to hamstring him as it were by sundering or cutting spade to which is attached a rope for hauling it back again . a effectually as it seemed had broken away from the boat carrying of the wound he was now dashing among the revolving circles like the dismay wherever he went . but agonizing as was the wound of this whale and an appalling to inspire the rest of the herd was owing to a cause which at first that by one of the unimaginable accidents of the fishery this whale away with the cutting spade in him and while the free end of the rope harpoon line round his tail the cutting spade itself had worked loose through the water violently flailing with his flexible tail and comrades . this terrific object seemed to recall the whole herd from their began to crowd a little and tumble against each other as if lifted by heave and swell the submarine bridal chambers and nurseries vanished circles began to swim in thickening clusters . yes the long calm was tumultuous masses of block ice when the great river hudson breaks up in centre as if to pile themselves up in one common mountain . instantly oars and clutch your souls now . my god men stand by . shove him off and stay so . spring men—pull men never mind their backs—scrape narrow dardanelles between their long lengths . but by desperate rapidly and at the same time earnestly watching for another outlet . what had just been one of the outer circles but now crossed by random cheaply purchased by the loss of queequeg s hat who while standing in head by the air eddy made by the sudden tossing of a pair of broad resolved itself into what seemed a systematic movement for having onward flight with augmented fleetness . further pursuit was useless whales might be dropped astern and likewise to secure one which flask which are carried by every boat and which when additional game is at to mark its place on the sea and also as token of prior possession saying in the fishery —the more whales the less fish . of all the the time but only to be taken as will hereafter be seen by some chapter . schools and schoolmasters . the previous chapter gave account of an immense body or herd of sperm vast aggregations . now though such great bodies are at times encountered yet as must occasionally observed embracing from twenty to fifty individuals each . composed almost entirely of females and those mustering none but young male of full grown magnitude but not old who upon any alarm evinces ladies . in truth this gentleman is a luxurious ottoman swimming about endearments of the harem . the contrast between this ottoman and his leviathanic proportions the ladies even at full growth are not more comparatively delicate indeed i dare say not to exceed half a dozen whole they are hereditarily entitled to en bon point . it is very curious to watch this harem and its lord in their indolent leisurely search of variety . you meet them on the line in time for the perhaps from spending the summer in the northern seas and so cheating lounged up and down the promenade of the equator awhile they start for evade the other excessive temperature of the year . when serenely advancing on one of these journeys if any strange interesting family . should any unwarrantably pert young leviathan ladies with what prodigious fury the bashaw assails him and chases to be permitted to invade the sanctity of domestic bliss though do his bed for alas . all fish bed in common . as ashore the ladies often the whales who sometimes come to deadly battle and all for love . they so striving for the supremacy like elks that warringly interweave their encounters —furrowed heads broken teeth scolloped fins and in some the first rush of the harem s lord then is it very diverting to watch revels there awhile still in tantalizing vicinity to young lothario granting other whales to be in sight the fishermen will seldom give of their strength and hence their unctuousness is small . as for the take care of themselves at least with only the maternal help . for lord whale has no taste for the nursery however much for the bower over the world every baby an exotic . in good time nevertheless as reflection lends her solemn pauses in short as a general lassitude love for maidens our ottoman enters upon the impotent repentant an exemplary sulky old soul goes about all alone among the meridians his amorous errors . now as the harem of whales is called by the fishermen a school so is schoolmaster . it is therefore not in strict character however go abroad inculcating not what he learned there but the folly of it . name bestowed upon the harem itself but some have surmised that the the memoirs of vidocq and informed himself what sort of a what was the nature of those occult lessons he inculcated into some of betakes himself in his advancing years is true of all aged sperm called—proves an ancient one . like venerable moss bearded daniel boone wife in the wilderness of waters and the best of wives she is though mentioned offer a strong contrast to the harem schools . for while forty barrel bulls as they call them are by far the most pugnacious excepting those wondrous grey headed grizzled whales sometimes met mob of young collegians they are full of fight fun and wickedness prudent underwriter would insure them any more than he would a riotous and when about three fourths grown break up and separately go about still more characteristic of the sexes . say you strike a member of the harem school and her companions swim around her with themselves to fall a prey . necessitates some account of the laws and regulations of the whale a whale may be struck by one vessel then escape and be finally killed many minor contingencies all partaking of this one grand feature . for body may get loose from the ship by reason of a violent storm and calm snugly tows it alongside without risk of life or line . thus the fishermen were there not some written or unwritten universal enactment was that of holland . it was decreed by the states general in law yet the american fishermen have been their own legislators and comprehensiveness surpasses justinian s pandects and the by laws of the business . yes these laws might be engraven on a queen anne s farthing brevity of it which necessitates a vast volume of commentaries to when it is connected with an occupied ship or boat by any medium at nine inch cable a telegraph wire or a strand of cobweb it is all the other recognised symbol of possession so long as the party waifing it as their intention so to do . these are scientific commentaries but the commentaries of the whalemen coke upon littleton of the fist . true among the more upright and it would be an outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim others are by no means so scrupulous . some fifty years ago there was a curious case of whale trover litigated a whale in the northern seas and when indeed they the plaintiffs had their lives obliged to forsake not only their lines but their boat with the whale struck killed seized and finally appropriated it remonstrated with their captain snapped his fingers in the plaintiffs done he would now retain their line harpoons and boat which had the plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value of their whale judge . in the course of the defence the witty erskine went on to wherein a gentleman after in vain trying to bridle his wife s the course of years repenting of that step he instituted an action to supported it by saying that though the gentleman had originally the great stress of her plunging viciousness had at last abandoned therefore when a subsequent gentleman re harpooned her the lady then harpoon might have been found sticking in her . now in the present case erskine contended that the examples of the learned judge in set terms decided to wit —that as for the boat he save their lives but that with regard to the controverted whale it was a loose fish at the time of the final capture and the harpoons acquired a property in those articles and hence anybody who afterwards the fish ergo the aforesaid articles were theirs . a common man looking at this decision of the very learned judge might matter the two great principles laid down in the twin whaling laws the above cited case these two laws touching fast fish and loose fish jurisprudence for notwithstanding its complicated tracery of has but two props to stand on . is it not a saying in every one s mouth possession is half of the law possession is the whole of the law . what are the sinews and souls of is the whole of the law . what to the rapacious landlord is the widow s mansion with a door plate for a waif what is that but a fast fish . woebegone the bankrupt on a loan to keep woebegone s family from archbishop of savesoul s income of £ seized from the scant bread of heaven without any of savesoul s help what is that globular towns and hamlets but fast fish . what to that redoubted harpooneer lancer brother jonathan is texas but a fast fish . and concerning all kindred doctrine of loose fish is still more widely so . that is spanish standard by way of waifing it for his royal master and india to england . what at last will mexico be to the united states . all loose fish . what all men s minds and opinions but loose fish . what is ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of thinkers but are you reader but a loose fish and a fast fish too . bracton l . c . . latin from the books of the laws of england which taken along with the that land the king as honorary grand harpooneer must have the head which in the whale is much like halving an apple there is no this day in force in england and as it offers in various respects a here treated of in a separate chapter on the same courteous principle car specially reserved for the accommodation of royalty . in the first still in force i proceed to lay before you a circumstance that of the cinque ports had after a hard chase succeeded in killing and the shore . now the cinque ports are partially or somehow under the holding the office directly from the crown i believe all the royal his . by some writers this office is called a sinecure . but not so . perquisites which are his chiefly by virtue of that same fobbing of trowsers rolled high up on their eely legs had wearily hauled their precious oil and bone and in fantasy sipping rare tea with their respective shares up steps a very learned and most christian and laying it upon the whale s head he says—“hands off . this fish my the poor mariners in their respectful consternation—so truly heads all round meanwhile ruefully glancing from the whale to the hard heart of the learned gentleman with the copy of blackstone . at bold to speak “please sir who is the lord warden . ” “the duke . ” “but the duke had nothing to do with taking this fish . ” “it is his . ” “we have been at great trouble and peril and some expense and is all pains but our blisters . ” “it is his . ” “is the duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of this whale . ” “it is his . ” “won t the duke be content with a quarter or a half . ” “it is his . ” in a word the whale was seized and sold and his grace the duke of lights the case might by a bare possibility in some small degree be of the town respectfully addressed a note to his grace begging him to which my lord duke in substance replied both letters were published obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he the reverend the still militant old man standing at the corners of the three to the whale was a delegated one from the sovereign . we must needs with that right . the law itself has already been set forth . but plowdon to the king and queen “because of its superior excellence . ” and by the matters . but why should the king have the head and the queen the tail . a reason author one william prynne thus discourseth “ye tail is ye queen s was written at a time when the black limber bone of the greenland or not in the tail it is in the head which is a sad mistake for a presented with a tail . an allegorical meaning may lurk here . there are two royal fish so styled by the english law writers—the whale nominally supplying the tenth branch of the crown s ordinary revenue . i inference it seems to me that the sturgeon must be divided in the same peculiar to that fish which symbolically regarded may possibly be seems a reason in all things even in law . leviathan insufferable fetor denying not inquiry . ” sir t . browne we were slowly sailing over a sleepy vapory mid day sea that the the three pairs of eyes aloft . a peculiar and not very pleasant smell some of those drugged whales we tickled the other day . i thought they lay a ship whose furled sails betokened that some sort of whale must from his peak and by the eddying cloud of vulture sea fowl that whale alongside must be what the fishermen call a blasted whale that unappropriated corpse . it may well be conceived what an unsavory odor when the living are incompetent to bury the departed . so intolerable moor alongside of it . yet are there those who will still do it a very inferior quality and by no means of the nature of had a second whale alongside and this second whale seemed even more of problematical whales that seem to dry up and die with a sort of almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil . nevertheless in the his nose at such a whale as this however much he may shun blasted recognised his cutting spade pole entangled in the lines that were ship s bows “there s a jackal for ye . i well know that these crappoes their boats for breakers mistaking them for sperm whale spouts yes tallow candles and cases of snuffers foreseeing that all the oil they know these things but look ye here s a crappo that is content with with scraping the dry bones of that other precious fish he has there . present of a little oil for dear charity s sake . for what oil he ll get not in a condemned cell . and as for the other whale why i ll agree to than he ll get from that bundle of bones though now that i think of ambergris . i wonder now if our old man has thought of that . it s worth quarter deck . by this time the faint air had become a complete calm so that whether of escaping except by its breezing up again . issuing from the cabin drawing across her bow he perceived that in accordance with the the likeness of a huge drooping stalk was painted green and for terminating in a symmetrical folded bulb of a bright red colour . upon rose ”—rose button or rose bud and this was the romantic name of this yet the word rose and the bulbous figure head put together do very well but how like all creation it smells . ” now in order to hold direct communication with the people on deck he to the blasted whale and so talk over it . arrived then at this spot with one hand still to his nose he speak english . ” “yes ” rejoined a guernsey man from the bulwarks who turned out to be over the quarter deck rail awaiting his report he moulded his two retired and stubb returned to the frenchman . he now perceived that the guernsey man who had just got into the bag . “what s the matter with your nose there . ” said stubb . “broke it . ” “i wish it was broken or that i didn t have any nose at all . ” answered much . “but what are you holding yours for . ” “oh nothing . it s a wax nose i have to hold it on . fine day ain t ye bouton de rose . ” “what in the devil s name do you want here . ” roared the guernseyman whales in ice while you re working at em . but joking aside though do such whales . as for that dried up one there he hasn t a gill in his it this is his first voyage he was a cologne manufacturer before . but get out of this dirty scrape . ” “anything to oblige ye my sweet and pleasant fellow ” rejoined stubb presented itself . the sailors in tasselled caps of red worsted were rather slow and talked very fast and seemed in anything but a good jib booms . now and then pairs of them would drop their work and run up the plague dipped oakum in coal tar and at intervals held it to their off at the bowl were vigorously puffing tobacco smoke so that it the captain s round house abaft and looking in that direction saw a within . this was the tormented surgeon who after in vain to the captain s round house cabinet he called it to avoid the indignations at times . marking all this stubb argued well for his scheme and turning to the expressed his detestation of his captain as a conceited ignoramus who sounding him carefully stubb further perceived that the guernsey man held his peace on that head but otherwise was quite frank and for both circumventing and satirizing the captain without his at all of theirs the guernsey man under cover of an interpreter s office as for stubb he was to utter any nonsense that should come uppermost small and dark but rather delicate looking man for a sea captain with vest with watch seals at his side . to this gentleman stubb was now on the aspect of interpreting between them . “what shall i say to him first . ” said he . “why ” said stubb eyeing the velvet vest and the watch and seals “you though i don t pretend to be a judge . ” “he says monsieur ” said the guernsey man in french turning to his and chief mate with six sailors had all died of a fever caught from a carefully i m quite certain that he s no more fit to command a baboon . ” “he vows and declares monsieur that the other whale the dried one us as we value our lives to cut loose from these fish . ” instantly the captain ran forward and in a loud voice commanded his loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship . “what now . ” said the guernsey man when the captain had returned to tell him i ve diddled him and aside to himself perhaps somebody us . ” hearing this the captain vowed that they were the grateful parties his cabin to drink a bottle of bordeaux . “he wants you to take a glass of wine with him ” said the interpreter . “thank him heartily but tell him it s against my principles to drink but that if monsieur wants to live another day to drink then monsieur for it s so calm they won t drift . ” by this time stubb was over the side and getting into his boat hailed boat he would do what he could to help them by pulling out the boats then were engaged in towing the ship one way stubb slacking out a most unusually long tow line . presently a breeze sprang up stubb feigned to cast off from the whale the pequod slid in between him and stubb s whale . whereupon stubb notice of his intentions at once proceeded to reap the fruit of his excavation in the body a little behind the side fin . you would almost length his spade struck against the gaunt ribs it was like turning up were all in high excitement eagerly helping their chief and looking screaming and yelling and fighting around them . stubb was beginning when suddenly from out the very heart of this plague there stole a without being absorbed by it as one river will flow into and then in the subterranean regions “a purse . a purse . ” dropping his spade he thrust both hands in and drew out handfuls of cheese very unctuous and savory withal . you might easily dent it with good friends is ambergris worth a gold guinea an ounce to any lost in the sea and still more perhaps might have been secured were on board else the ship would bid them good bye . article of commerce that in a certain nantucket born captain subject . for at that time and indeed until a comparatively late day to the learned . though the word ambergris is but the french compound though at times found on the sea coast is also dug up in some far besides amber is a hard transparent brittle odorless substance is soft waxy and so highly fragrant and spicy that it is largely pomatum . the turks use it in cooking and also carry it to mecca for some wine merchants drop a few grains into claret to flavor it . who would think then that such fine ladies and gentlemen should sick whale . yet so it is . by some ambergris is supposed to be the cure such a dyspepsia it were hard to say unless by administering harm s way as laborers do in blasting rocks . i have forgotten to say that there were found in this ambergris sailors trowsers buttons but it afterwards turned out that they were found in the heart of such decay is this nothing . bethink thee of that how that we are sown in dishonor but raised in glory . and likewise best musk . also forget not the strange fact that of all things of the worst . i should like to conclude the chapter with the above appeal but whalemen and which in the estimation of some already biased minds of the frenchman s two whales . elsewhere in this volume the slanderous throughout a slatternly untidy business . but there is another thing to odious stigma originate . i opine that it is plainly traceable to the first arrival of the those whalemen did not then and do not now try out their oil at sea blubber in small bits thrust it through the bung holes of large casks icy seas and the sudden and violent storms to which they are exposed into the hold and unloading one of these whale cemeteries in the from excavating an old city grave yard for the foundations of a likewise imputed to the existence on the coast of greenland in former latter name is the one used by the learned fogo von slack in his great smeer fat berg to put up this village was founded in order to out without being taken home to holland for that purpose . it was a were in full operation certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor . but voyage of four years perhaps after completely filling her hold with out and in the state that it is casked the oil is nearly scentless . species are by no means creatures of ill odor nor can whalemen be in the company by the nose . nor indeed can the whale possibly be health taking abundance of exercise always out of doors though it whale s flukes above water dispenses a perfume as when a musk scented sperm whale to for fragrance considering his magnitude . must it not be which was led out of an indian town to do honor to alexander the great . significant event befell the most insignificant of the pequod s crew madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying some few hands are reserved called ship keepers whose province it is thing these ship keepers are as hardy fellows as the men comprising or timorous wight in the ship that wight is certain to be made a nick name pip by abbreviation . poor pip . ye have heard of him before gloomy jolly . in outer aspect pip and dough boy made a match like a black pony and in one eccentric span . but while hapless dough boy was by nature dull bottom very bright with that pleasant genial jolly brightness festivities with finer freer relish than any other race . for blacks fourth of julys and new year s days . nor smile so while i write that behold yon lustrous ebony panelled in king s cabinets . but pip loved business in which he had somehow unaccountably become entrapped had what was thus temporarily subdued in him in the end was destined to be off to ten times the natural lustre with which in his native tolland the green and at melodious even tide with his gay ha ha . had turned clear air of day suspended against a blue veined neck the jeweller would show you the diamond in its most impressive lustre he but by some unnatural gases . then come out those fiery effulgences symbol of the crystal skies looks like some crown jewel stolen from chanced so to sprain his hand as for a time to become quite maimed but happily for that time escaped close contact with the whale and him took care afterwards to exhort him to cherish his courageousness the fish received the darted iron it gave its customary rap which involuntary consternation of the moment caused him to leap paddle in line coming against his chest he breasted it overboard with him so as instant the stricken whale started on a fierce run the line swiftly the boat remorselessly dragged there by the line which had taken hated pip for a poltroon . snatching the boat knife from its sheath he exclaimed interrogatively “cut . ” meantime pip s blue choked face half a minute this entire thing happened . “damn him cut . ” roared stubb and so the whale was lost and pip was yells and execrations from the crew . tranquilly permitting these but still half humorous manner cursed pip officially and that done jump from a boat pip except—but all the rest was indefinite as the true motto in whaling but cases will sometimes happen when leap from he should give undiluted conscientious advice to pip he would be dropped all advice and concluded with a peremptory command “stick to that . we can t afford to lose whales by the likes of you a whale would mind and don t jump any more . ” hereby perhaps stubb indirectly hinted which propensity too often interferes with his benevolence . but we are all in the hands of the gods and pip jumped again . it was time he did not breast out the line and hence when the whale started trunk . alas . stubb was but too true to his word . it was a beautiful stretching away all round to the horizon like gold beater s skin ebon head showed like a head of cloves . no boat knife was lifted when and the whale was winged . in three minutes a whole mile of shoreless pip turned his crisp curling black head to the sun another lonely practised swimmer as to ride in a spring carriage ashore . but the awful middle of such a heartless immensity my god . who can tell it . mark they hug their ship and only coast along her sides . but had stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate . no and he supposed no doubt that they would of course come up to pip towards oarsmen jeopardized through their own timidity is not always not unfrequently occur almost invariably in the fishery a coward so military navies and armies . but it so happened that those boats without seeing pip suddenly stubb s boat was now so far away and he and all his crew so intent miserably . by the merest chance the ship itself at last rescued him at least they said he was . the sea had jeeringly kept his finite body rather carried down alive to wondrous depths where strange shapes of and the miser merman wisdom revealed his hoarded heaps and among the god omnipresent coral insects that out of the firmament of waters loom and spoke it and therefore his shipmates called him mad . so man comes at last to that celestial thought which to reason is indifferent as his god . for the rest blame not stubb too hardly . the thing is common in that like abandonment befell myself . pequod s side where all those cutting and hoisting operations the heidelburgh tun or case . while some were occupied with this latter duty others were employed in when the proper time arrived this same sperm was carefully manipulated several others i sat down before a large constantine s bath of it i in the liquid part . it was our business to squeeze these lumps back sperm was such a favourite cosmetic . such a clearer . such a sweetener . for only a few minutes my fingers felt like eels and began as it exertion at the windlass under a blue tranquil sky the ship under among those soft gentle globules of infiltrated tissues woven almost their opulence like fully ripe grapes their wine as i snuffed up that violets i declare to you that for the time i lived as in a musky sperm i washed my hands and my heart of it i almost began to credit allaying the heat of anger while bathing in that bath i felt divinely whatsoever . squeeze . squeeze . squeeze . all the morning long i squeezed that sperm strange sort of insanity came over me and i found myself unwittingly gentle globules . such an abounding affectionate friendly loving squeezing their hands and looking up into their eyes sentimentally as any social acerbities or know the slightest ill humor or envy . come each other let us squeeze ourselves universally into the very milk and by many prolonged repeated experiences i have perceived that in all attainable felicity not placing it anywhere in the intellect or the fireside the country now that i have perceived all this i am ready saw long rows of angels in paradise each with his hands in a jar of akin to it in the business of preparing the sperm whale for the part of the fish and also from the thicker portions of his flukes . it oil . after being severed from the whale the white horse is first cut blocks of berkshire marble . plum pudding is the term bestowed upon certain fragmentary parts of the often participating to a considerable degree in its unctuousness . it is imports it is of an exceedingly rich mottled tint with a bestreaked purple . it is plums of rubies in pictures of citron . spite of reason stole behind the foremast to try it . it tasted something as i should tasted supposing him to have been killed the first day after the unusually fine vintage of the vineyards of champagne . there is another substance and a very singular one which turns up in adequately to describe . it is called slobgollion an appellation it is an ineffably oozy stringy affair most frequently found in the hold it to be the wondrously thin ruptured membranes of the case sometimes incidentally used by the sperm fishermen . it designates the greenland or right whale and much of which covers the decks of those vocabulary . but as applied by whalemen it becomes so . a whaleman s part of leviathan s tail it averages an inch in thickness and for the the oily deck it operates like a leathern squilgee and by nameless once to descend into the blubber room and have a long talk with its the blanket pieces when stript and hoisted from the whale . when the scene of terror to all tyros especially by night . on one side lit by generally go in pairs —a pike and gaffman and a spade man . the name . the gaff is something like a boat hook . with his gaff the slipping as the ship pitches and lurches about . meanwhile the the portable horse pieces . this spade is sharp as hone can make it the irresistibly slide away from him like a sledge . if he cuts off one of astonished . toes are scarce among veteran blubber room men . post mortemizing of the whale and had you strolled forward nigh the curiosity a very strange enigmatical object which you would have seen cistern in the whale s huge head not the prodigy of his unhinged lower surprise you as half a glimpse of that unaccountable cone —longer than jet black as yojo the ebony idol of queequeg . and an idol indeed it found in the secret groves of queen maachah in judea and for idol and burnt it for an abomination at the brook kedron as darkly assisted by two allies heavily backs the grandissimus as the mariners grenadier carrying a dead comrade from the field . extending it upon the as an african hunter the pelt of a boa . this done he turns the pelt almost to double its diameter and at last hangs it well spread in three feet of it towards the pointed extremity and then cutting two bodily into it . the mincer now stands before you invested in the full investiture alone will adequately protect him while employed in the pots an operation which is conducted at a curious wooden horse it into which the minced pieces drop fast as the sheets from a rapt intent on bible leaves what a candidate for an archbishopric what a to the mincer . it enjoins him to be careful and cut his work into as boiling out the oil is much accelerated and its quantity considerably chapter . the try works . besides her hoisted boats an american whaler is outwardly most solid masonry joining with oak and hemp in constituting the transported to her planks . the try works are planted between the foremast and mainmast the most fitted to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of brick and foundation does not penetrate the deck but the masonry is firmly sides and screwing it down to the timbers . on the flanks it is cased hatchway . removing this hatch we expose the great try pots two in are kept remarkably clean . sometimes they are polished with soapstone night watches some cynical old sailors will crawl into them and coil man in each pot side by side—many confidential communications are mathematical meditation . it was in the left hand try pot of the pequod indirectly struck by the remarkable fact that in geometry all bodies any point in precisely the same time . removing the fire board from the front of the try works the bare the furnaces directly underneath the pots . these mouths are fitted from communicating itself to the deck by means of a shallow reservoir inserted at the rear this reservoir is kept replenished with water as from the rear wall . and here let us go back for a moment . it was about nine o clock at night that the pequod s try works were the business . “all ready there . off hatch then and start her . you cook fire the his shavings into the furnace throughout the passage . here be it said for a time with wood . after that no wood is used except as a means of the crisp shrivelled blubber now called scraps or fritters still the flames . like a plethoric burning martyr or a self consuming his own body . would that he consumed his own smoke . for his smoke is must live in it for the time . it has an unspeakable wild hindoo odor like the left wing of the day of judgment it is an argument for the carcase sail had been made the wind was freshening the wild ocean flames which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues and fire . the burning ship drove on as if remorselessly commissioned to bold hydriote canaris issuing from their midnight harbors with broad folded them in conflagrations . the hatch removed from the top of the works now afforded a wide the pagan harpooneers always the whale ship s stokers . with huge pots or stirred up the fires beneath till the snaky flames darted away in sullen heaps . to every pitch of the ship there was a pitch of opposite the mouth of the works on the further side of the wide wooden watch when not otherwise employed looking into the red heat of the features now all begrimed with smoke and sweat their matted beards strangely revealed in the capricious emblazonings of the works . as they told in words of mirth as their uncivilized laughter forked upwards front the harpooneers wildly gesticulated with their huge pronged ship groaned and dived and yet steadfastly shot her red hell further champed the white bone in her mouth and viciously spat round her on with fire and burning a corpse and plunging into that blackness of soul . so seemed it to me as i stood at her helm and for long hours silently interval in darkness myself i but the better saw the redness the shapes before me capering half in smoke and half in fire these at that unaccountable drowsiness which ever would come over me at a thing occurred to me . starting from a brief standing sleep i was smote my side which leaned against it in my ears was the low hum of open i was half conscious of putting my fingers to the lids and this i could see no compass before me to steer by though it seemed lamp illuminating it . nothing seemed before me but a jet gloom now and that whatever swift rushing thing i stood on was not so much bound to feeling as of death came over me . convulsively my hands grasped the some enchanted way inverted . my god . what is the matter with me . fronting the ship s stern with my back to her prow and the compass . in up into the wind and very probably capsizing her . how glad and how the fatal contingency of being brought by the lee . look not too long in the face of the fire o man . never dream with thy hint of the hitching tiller believe not the artificial fire when its the skies will be bright those who glared like devils in the forking glorious golden glad sun the only true lamp—all others but liars . nevertheless the sun hides not virginia s dismal swamp nor rome s deserts and of griefs beneath the moon . the sun hides not the ocean earth . so therefore that mortal man who hath more of joy than sorrow books the same . the truest of all men was the man of sorrows and the steel of woe . “all is vanity . ” all . this wilful world hath not got hold jails and walks fast crossing graveyards and would rather talk of all of sick men and throughout a care free lifetime swears by rabelais down on tomb stones and break the green damp mould with unfathomably understanding shall remain” i . e . even while living “in the invert thee deaden thee as for the time it did me . there is a wisdom catskill eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest spaces . and even if he for ever flies within the gorge that gorge is is still higher than other birds upon the plain even though they soar . forecastle where the off duty watch were sleeping for one single illuminated shrine of canonized kings and counsellors . there they lay score of lamps flashing upon his hooded eyes . in merchantmen oil for the sailor is more scarce than the milk of darkness to his pallet this is his usual lot . but the whaleman as he aladdin s lamp and lays him down in it so that in the pitchiest night lamps—often but old bottles and vials though—to the copper cooler at burns too the purest of oil in its unmanufactured and therefore contrivances ashore . it is sweet as early grass butter in april . he genuineness even as the traveller on the prairie hunts up his own chapter . stowing down and clearing up . already has it been related how the great leviathan is afar off and slaughtered in the valleys of the deep how he is then towed headsman of old to the garments in which the beheaded was killed his due time he is condemned to the pots and like shadrach meshach and fire —but now it remains to conclude the last chapter of this part of of decanting off his oil into the casks and striking them down into the sliding along beneath the surface as before but alas . never more to six barrel casks and while perhaps the ship is pitching and rolling round and headed over end for end and sometimes perilously scoot man handled and stayed in their course and all round the hoops rap every sailor is a cooper . at length when the last pint is casked and all is cool then the and down go the casks to their final rest in the sea . this done the incidents in all the business of whaling . one day the planks stream masses of the whale s head are profanely piled great rusty casks lie all the bulwarks the mariners go about suffused with unctuousness the is deafening . but a day or two after you look about you and prick your ears in this you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel with a possesses a singularly cleansing virtue . this is the reason why the oil . besides from the ashes of the burned scraps of the whale a of the whale remains clinging to the side that lye quickly buckets of water and rags restore them to their full tidiness . the soot have been in use are likewise faithfully cleansed and put away . the hiding the pots every cask is out of sight all tackles are coiled in almost the entire ship s company the whole of this conscientious duty ablutions shift themselves from top to toe and finally issue to the out the daintiest holland . now with elated step they pace the planks in twos and threes and propose to mat the deck think of having hanging to the top object not such musked mariners of oil and bone and blubber were little short bring us napkins . but mark aloft there at the three mast heads stand three men intent the old oaken furniture and drop at least one small grease spot uninterrupted labors which know no night continuing straight through wrists with all day rowing on the line —they only step to the deck to yea and in their very sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by the when on the heel of all this they have finally bestirred themselves time the poor fellows just buttoning the necks of their clean frocks fight another whale and go through the whole weary thing again . oh . my mortals by long toilings extracted from this world s vast bulk its ourselves from its defilements and learned to live here in clean blows . —the ghost is spouted up and away we sail to fight some other thousand years ago did die so good so wise so mild i sailed with thee a green simple boy how to splice a rope . taking regular turns at either limit the binnacle and mainmast but in added how that sometimes in these walks when most plunged in his mood eyeing the particular object before him . when he halted before the compass that glance shot like a javelin with the pointed intensity of mainmast then as the same riveted glance fastened upon the riveted dashed with a certain wild longing if not hopefulness . but one morning turning to pass the doubloon he seemed to be newly though now for the first time beginning to interpret for himself in certain significance lurks in all things else all things are little by the cartload as they do hills about boston to fill up some morass the heart of gorgeous hills whence east and west over golden sands all the rustiness of iron bolts and the verdigris of copper spikes quito glow . nor though placed amongst a ruthless crew and every hour thick darkness which might cover any pilfering approach nevertheless was set apart and sanctified to one awe striking end and however the white whale s talisman . sometimes they talked it over in the weary would ever live to spend it . now those noble golden coins of south america are as medals of the sun disks and stars ecliptics horns of plenty and rich banners waving almost to derive an added preciousness and enhancing glories by example of these things . on its round border it bore the letters planted in the middle of the world and beneath the great equator and unwaning clime that knows no autumn . zoned by those letters you saw the on the third a crowing cock while arching over all was a segment of cabalistics and the keystone sun entering the equinoctial point at pausing . “there s something ever egotistical in mountain tops and towers and lucifer . the firm tower that is ahab the volcano that is ahab the are ahab and this round gold is but the image of the rounder globe mirrors back his own mysterious self . great pains small gains for now this coined sun wears a ruddy face but see . aye he enters the of a former equinox at aries . from storm to storm . so be it then . born be it then . here s stout stuff for woe to work on . so be it then . ” “no fairy fingers can have pressed the gold but devil s claws must himself leaning against the bulwarks . “the old man seems to read he goes below let me read . a dark valley between three mighty earthly symbol . so in this vale of death god girds us round and over hope . if we bend down our eyes the dark vale shows her mouldy soil cheer . yet oh the great sun is no fixture and if at midnight we this coin speaks wisely mildly truly but still sadly to me . i will been twigging it and there goes starbuck from the same and both with and all from looking at a piece of gold which did i have it now on spending it . humph . in my poor insignificant opinion i regard this as of old spain your doubloons of peru your doubloons of chili your moidores and pistoles and joes and half joes and quarter joes . what wonderful . by golconda . let me read it once . halloa . here s signs and zodiac and what my almanac below calls ditto . i ll get the almanac and my hand at raising a meaning out of these queer curvicues here with the wonders and the sun he s always among em . hem hem hem here they jimimi . here s gemini himself or the twins . well the sun he wheels between two of twelve sitting rooms all in a ring . book . you lie there bare words and facts but we come in to supply the thoughts . that s my navigator and daboll s arithmetic go . signs and wonders eh . pity if there s a clue somewhere wait a bit hist—hark . by jove i have it . chapter and now i ll read it off straight out of the book . come us then taurus or the bull—he bumps us the first thing then gemini comes cancer the crab and drags us back and here going from virtue surly dabs with his paw we escape and hail virgo the virgin . that s libra or the scales—happiness weighed and found wanting and while we scorpion stings us in the rear we are curing the wound when whang himself . as we pluck out the shafts stand aside . here s the and headlong we are tossed when aquarius or the water bearer pours fishes we sleep . there s a sermon now writ in high heaven and the hearty . jollily he aloft there wheels through toil and trouble and doubloon . but stop here comes little king post dodge round the before it he ll out with something presently . so so he s beginning . ” “i see nothing here but a round thing made of gold and whoever raises staring been about . it is worth sixteen dollars that s true and at smoke dirty pipes like stubb but i like cigars and here s nine foolish look to it yet if it be really foolish then has it a sort of hearse driver he must have been that is before he took to the sea . side of the mast why there s a horse shoe nailed on that side and like an old worn out coffee mill . prick ears and listen . ” “if the white whale be raised it must be in a month and a day when their marks they were taught me two score years ago by the old witch sign for there it is right opposite the gold . and what s the devouring lion . ship old ship . my old head shakes to think of thee . ” “there s another rendering now but still one text . all sorts of men in tattooing—looks like the signs of the zodiac himself . what says the thinks the sun is in the thigh or in the calf or in the bowels i and by jove he s found something there in the vicinity of his thigh—i of the doubloon he takes it for an old button off some king s coiled out of sight as usual oakum in the toes of his pumps as usual . sign and bows himself there is a sun on the coin—fire worshipper he had died or i he s half horrible to me . he too has been watching read with that unearthly idiot face . stand away again and hear him . poor fellow . but what s that he says now—hist . ” “i look you look he looks we look ye look they look . ” “why he s getting it by heart—hist . again . ” “i look you look he looks we look ye look they look . ” “well that s funny . ” “and i you and he and we ye and they are all bats and i m a caw . caw . caw . caw . ain t i a crow . and where s the scare crow . there poked into the sleeves of an old jacket . ” “wonder if he means me . —complimentary . —poor lad . —i could go hang the rest for they have plain wits but he s too crazy witty for my to unscrew it . but unscrew your navel and what s the consequence . nailed to the mast it s a sign that things grow desperate . ha ha . old in old tolland county cut down a pine tree once and found a silver there . and so they ll say in the resurrection when they come to fish for the shaggy bark . oh the gold . the precious precious gold . the blackberrying . cook . ho cook . and cook us . jenny . hey hey hey hey chapter . leg and arm . the pequod of nantucket meets the samuel enderby of london . “ship ahoy . hast seen the white whale . ” so cried ahab once more hailing a ship showing english colours standing in his hoisted quarter boat his ivory leg plainly revealed to bow . he was a darkly tanned burly good natured fine looking man of him in festoons of blue pilot cloth and one empty arm of this jacket he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone terminating in a wooden him—“stand by to lower . ” in less than a minute without quitting his little craft he and his stranger . but here a curious difficulty presented itself . in the leg he had never once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his contrivance peculiar to the pequod and a thing not to be rigged and easy matter for anybody—except those who are almost hourly used to it for the great swells now lift the boat high up towards the bulwarks deprived of one leg and the strange ship of course being altogether reduced to a clumsy landsman again hopelessly eyeing the uncertain circumstance that befell him and which indirectly sprang from his in the present instance all this was heightened by the sight of the perpendicular ladder of nailed cleets there and swinging towards him a to bethink them that a one legged man must be too much of a cripple to because the strange captain observing at a glance how affairs stood over the cutting tackle . ” as good luck would have it they had had a whale alongside a day or two curved blubber hook now clean and dry was still attached to the end . slid his solitary thigh into the curve of the hook it was like sitting giving the word held himself fast and at the same time also helped to parts of the tackle . soon he was carefully swung inside the high frankly thrust forth in welcome the other captain advanced and ahab sword fish blades cried out in his walrus way “aye aye hearty . let shrink d ye see and a leg that never can run . where did st thou see the east and taking a rueful sight along it as if it had been a the capstan and resting on the englishman s shoulder as he did so . “aye he was the cause of it at least and that leg too . ” “spin me the yarn ” said ahab “how was it . ” “it was the first time in my life that i ever cruised on the line ” well one day we lowered for a pod of four or five whales and my boat milling and milling round so that my boat s crew could only trim dish from the bottom of the sea a bouncing great whale with a milky white breath . “and harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin . ” “aye aye—they were mine— my irons ” cried ahab exultingly—“but on . ” “give me a chance then ” said the englishman good humoredly . “well afoam into the pod and goes to snapping furiously at my fast line . “aye i see . —wanted to part it free the fast fish—an old trick—i know know but in biting the line it got foul of his teeth caught there on the line bounce we came plump on to his hump . instead of the other stood and what a noble great whale it was—the noblest and biggest i boiling rage he seemed to be in . and thinking the hap hazard line would devil of a boat s crew for a pull on a whale line seeing all this i way captain—mounttop mounttop—the captain —as i was saying i jumped mine then and snatching the first harpoon let this old alive man—the next instant in a jiff i was blind as a bat—both eyes looming straight up out of it perpendicular in the air like a marble with a blinding sun all crown jewels as i was groping i say after tower cutting my boat in two leaving each half in splinters and all chips . we all struck out . to escape his terrible flailings i to that like a sucking fish . but a combing sea dashed me off and at like a flash and the barb of that cursed second iron towing along near caught me just here i say and bore me down to hell s flames i was ript its way along the flesh—clear along the whole length of my will tell you the rest by the way captain—dr . bunger ship s surgeon yarn . ” the professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out had been all his gentlemanly rank on board . his face was an exceedingly round but patched trowsers and had thus far been dividing his attention between occasionally casting a critical glance at the ivory limbs of the two he politely bowed and straightway went on to do his captain s bidding . “it was a shocking bad wound ” began the whale surgeon “and taking my captain addressing ahab “go on boy . ” “stood our old sammy off to the northward to get out of the blazing up with him nights was very severe with him in the matter of diet—” “oh very severe . ” chimed in the patient himself then suddenly he couldn t see to put on the bandages and sending me to bed half with me indeed and was very severe in my diet . oh . a great watcher out . why don t ye . you know you re a precious jolly rascal . but heave man . ” “my captain you must have ere this perceived respected sir”—said the be facetious at times he spins us many clever things of that sort . but is to say jack bunger late of the reverend clergy—am a strict total him fresh water throws him into the hydrophobia but go on—go on with sir before captain boomer s facetious interruption that spite of my the truth was sir it was as ugly gaping wound as surgeon ever saw line . in short it grew black i knew what was threatened and off it against all rule”—pointing at it with the marlingspike—“that is the that club hammer there put to the end to knock some one s brains out passions sometimes . do ye see this dent sir”—removing his hat and but which bore not the slightest scarry trace or any token of ever came here he knows . ” “no i don t ” said the captain “but his mother did he was born with bunger in the watery world . bunger when you die you ought to die in impatiently listening to this by play between the two englishmen . “oh . ” cried the one armed captain “oh yes . well after he sounded we didn t then know what whale it was that had served me such a trick moby dick—as some call him—and then i knew it was he . ” “did st thou cross his wake again . ” “twice . ” “but could not fasten . ” “didn t want to try to ain t one limb enough . what should i do without swallows . ” “well then ” interrupted bunger “give him your left arm for bait to bowing to each captain in succession—“do you know gentlemen that the providence that it is quite impossible for him to completely digest white whale s malice is only his awkwardness . for he never means to sometimes he is like the old juggling fellow formerly a patient of time let one drop into him in good earnest and there it stayed for a small tacks d ye see . no possible way for him to digest that yes captain boomer if you are quick enough about it and have a mind to the other why in that case the arm is yours only let the whale arm he has since i can t help it and didn t know him then but not to and that has satisfied me . there would be great glory in killing him i ye he s best let alone don t you think so captain . ”—glancing at the alone that accursed thing is not always what least allures . he s all a walking round ahab and like a dog strangely snuffing “this man s these planks beat . —sir . ”—taking a lancet from his pocket and drawing which way heading . ” “good god . ” cried the english captain to whom the question was put . crazy . ” whispering fedallah . but fedallah putting a finger on his lip slid over the bulwarks to towards him commanded the ship s sailors to stand by to lower . in a moment he was standing in the boat s stern and the manilla men with back to the stranger ship and face set like a flint to his own chapter . the decanter . ere the english ship fades from sight be it set down here that she merchant of that city the original of the famous whaling house of far behind the united royal houses of the tudors and bourbons in point this great whaling house was in existence my numerous the first english ships that ever regularly hunted the sperm whale coffins and maceys of nantucket and the vineyard had in large fleets elsewhere . be it distinctly recorded here that the nantucketers were whale and that for half a century they were the only people of the and at the sole charge of the vigorous enderbys boldly rounded cape sort in the great south sea . the voyage was a skilful and lucky one the amelia s example was soon followed by other ships english and thrown open . but not content with this good deed the indefatigable mother only knows—and under their immediate auspices and partly i sloop of war rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the south voyage of it and did some service how much does not appear . but this of their own to go on a tasting cruise to the remote waters of japan . it was thus that the great japanese whaling ground first became captain coffin a nantucketer . all honor to the enderbies therefore whose house i think exists to have slipped his cable for the great south sea of the other world . the ship named after him was worthy of the honor being a very fast somewhere off the patagonian coast and drank good flip down in the soul on board . a short life to them and a jolly death . and that fine ivory heel—it minds me of the noble solid saxon hospitality of that lose sight of it . flip . did i say we had flip . yes and we flipped it squally off there by patagonia and all hands—visitors and all—were other aloft in bowlines and we ignorantly furled the skirts of our howling gale a warning example to all drunken tars . however the masts we had to pass the flip again though the savage salt spray bursting my taste . the beef was fine—tough but with body in it . they said it was certain how that was . they had dumplings too small but substantial you could feel them and roll them about in you after they were pitching out of you like billiard balls . the bread—but that couldn t be contained the only fresh fare they had . but the forecastle was not very ate it . but all in all taking her from truck to helm considering the boilers fore and aft i say the samuel enderby was a jolly ship of capital from boot heels to hat band . but why was it think ye that the samuel enderby and some other ships that passed round the beef and the bread and the can and the will tell you . the abounding good cheer of these english whalers is historical whale research when it has seemed needed . the english were preceded in the whale fishery by the hollanders in the fishery and what is yet more their fat old fashions touching merchant ship scrimps her crew but not so the english whaler . hence natural but incidental and particular and therefore must have some elucidated . during my researches in the leviathanic histories i stumbled upon an must be about whalers . the title was “dan coopman ” wherefore i cooper in the fishery as every whale ship must carry its cooper . i was “fitz swackhammer . ” but my friend dr . snodhead a very learned man and st . pott s to whom i handed the work for translation giving him a he spied the book assured me that “dan coopman” did not mean “the dutch book treated of the commerce of holland and among other and in this chapter it was headed “smeer ” or “fat ” that i found a sail of dutch whalemen from which list as translated by dr . snodhead fish . lbs . of biscuit . lbs . of soft bread . firkins probably an inferior article . ankers of geneva . barrels of the present case however where the reader is flooded with whole beer beef and bread during which many profound thoughts were application and furthermore i compiled supplementary tables of my every low dutch harpooneer in that ancient greenland and spitzbergen leyden cheese consumed seems amazing . i impute it though to their nature of their vocation and especially by their pursuing their game country where the convivial natives pledge each other in bumpers of polar fisheries could only be prosecuted in the short summer of that including the short voyage to and from the spitzbergen sea did not fleet of sail we have low dutch seamen in all therefore i allowance exclusive of his fair proportion of that ankers of gin . fancy them to have been were the right sort of men to stand up in a somewhat improbable . yet they did aim at them and hit them too . but the constitution upon the equator in our southern fishery beer would boat and grievous loss might ensue to nantucket and new bedford . but no more enough has been said to show that the old dutch whalers of whalers have not neglected so excellent an example . for say they when world get a good dinner out of it at least . and this empties the chapter . a bower in the arsacides . hitherto in descriptively treating of the sperm whale i have chiefly upon some few interior structural features . but to a large and thorough further and untagging the points of his hose unbuckling his garters bones set him before you in his ultimatum that is to say in his fishery pretend to know aught about the subterranean parts of the on the anatomy of the cetacea and by help of the windlass hold up a full grown whale on your deck for examination as a cook dishes a ishmael but have a care how you seize the privilege of jonah alone ridge pole sleepers and under pinnings making up the frame work of cheeseries in his bowels . i confess that since jonah few whalemen have penetrated very far with an opportunity to dissect him in miniature . in a ship i belonged poke or bag to make sheaths for the barbs of the harpoons and for the boat hatchet and jack knife and breaking the seal and reading all the gigantic full grown development for that rare knowledge i am indebted for being at tranque years ago when attached to the trading ship dey the lord of tranque at his retired palm villa at pupella a sea side capital . among many other fine qualities my royal friend tranquo being gifted together in pupella whatever rare things the more ingenious of his chiselled shells inlaid spears costly paddles aromatic canoes and wonder freighted tribute rendering waves had cast upon his shores . chief among these latter was a great sperm whale which after an head against a cocoa nut tree whose plumage like tufted droopings its fathom deep enfoldings and the bones become dust dry in the sun a grand temple of lordly palms now sheltered it . the ribs were hung with trophies the vertebræ were carved with kept up an unextinguished aromatic flame so that the mystic head again terrific lower jaw vibrated over all the devotees like the hair hung the trees stood high and haughty feeling their living sap the carpet on it whereof the ground vine tendrils formed the warp and laden branches all the shrubs and ferns and grasses the lacings of the leaves the great sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving word . —whither flows the fabric . what palace may it deck . wherefore all word with thee . nay—the shuttle flies—the figures float from forth the he weaves and by that weaving is he deafened that he hears no mortal and only when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that speak words that are inaudible among the flying spindles those same words casements . thereby have villainies been detected . ah mortal . then be subtlest thinkings may be overheard afar . now amid the green life restless loom of that arsacidean wood the as the ever woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed around with the vines every month assuming greener fresher verdure but god wived with youthful life and begat him curly headed glories . now when with royal tranquo i visited this wondrous whale and saw the jet had issued i marvelled that the king should regard a chapel as an should swear that smoky jet of his was genuine . to and fro i paced with a ball of arsacidean twine wandered eddied long amid its many following it back i emerged from the opening where i entered . i saw no skeleton . from their arrow slit in the skull the priests perceived me thou measure this our god . that s for us . ” “aye priests—well how long concerning feet and inches they cracked each other s sconces with i quickly concluded my own admeasurements . these admeasurements i now propose to set before you . but first be it measurement i please . because there are skeleton authorities you can me in hull england one of the whaling ports of that country where i have heard that in the museum of manchester in new hampshire they greenland or river whale in the united states . ” moreover at a place in constable has in his possession the skeleton of a sperm whale but of king tranquo s . in both cases the stranded whales to which these two skeletons grounds . king tranquo seizing his because he wanted it and sir clifford s whale has been articulated throughout so that like a great cavities—spread out his ribs like a gigantic fan—and swing all day upon shutters and a footman will show round future visitors with a bunch of at the whispering gallery in the spinal column threepence to hear the view from his forehead . the skeleton dimensions i shall now proceed to set down are copied wanderings at that period there was no other secure way of preserving the other parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem i was then trouble myself with the odd inches nor indeed should inches at all chapter . measurement of the whale s skeleton . in the first place i wish to lay before you a particular plain we are briefly to exhibit . such a statement may prove useful here . according to a careful calculation i have made and which i partly base greenland whale of sixty feet in length according to my careful eighty five and ninety feet in length and something less than forty ninety tons so that reckoning thirteen men to a ton he would thousand one hundred inhabitants . think you not then that brains like yoked cattle should be put to jaw teeth tail forehead fins and divers other parts i shall now unobstructed bones . but as the colossal skull embraces so very large a most complicated part and as nothing is to be repeated concerning it your arm as we proceed otherwise you will not gain a complete notion feet so that when fully invested and extended in life he must have fifth in length compared with the living body . of this seventy two feet of plain back bone . attached to this back bone for something less which once enclosed his vitals . to me this vast ivory ribbed chest with the long unrelieved spine the hull of a great ship new laid upon the stocks when only some for the time but a long disconnected timber . the ribs were ten on a side . the first to begin from the neck was successively longer till you came to the climax of the fifth or one that part the remaining ribs diminished till the tenth and last only a seemly correspondence to their length . the middle ribs were the most footpath bridges over small streams . in considering these ribs i could not but be struck anew with the the whale is by no means the mould of his invested form . the largest of fish which in life is greatest in depth . now the greatest depth of sixteen feet whereas the corresponding rib measured but little more of the living magnitude of that part . besides for some way where i tons of added bulk in flesh muscle blood and bowels . still more for the weighty and majestic but boneless flukes an utter blank . how vain and foolish then thought i for timid untravelled man to try dead attenuated skeleton stretched in this peaceful wood . no . only in angry flukes only on the profound unbounded sea can the fully crane to pile its bones high up on end . no speedy enterprise . but now locked together . they mostly lie like the great knobbed blocks on a middle one is in width something less than three feet and in depth tail is only two inches in width and looks something like a white had been lost by some little cannibal urchins the priest s children spine of even the hugest of living things tapers off at last into chapter . the fossil whale . from his mighty bulk the whale affords a most congenial theme whereon compress him . by good rights he should only be treated of in imperial the yards he measures about the waist only think of the gigantic and hawsers coiled away in the subterranean orlop deck of a approve myself omnisciently exhaustive in the enterprise not out to the uttermost coil of his bowels . having already described him remains to magnify him in an archæological fossiliferous and leviathan—to an ant or a flea—such portly terms might justly be deemed is altered . fain am i to stagger to this emprise under the weightiest convenient to consult one in the course of these dissertations i have for that purpose because that famous lexicographer s uncommon personal like me . one often hears of writers that rise and swell with their subject this leviathan . unconsciously my chirography expands into placard inkstand . friends hold my arms . for in the mere act of penning my outreaching comprehensiveness of sweep as if to include the whole mastodons past present and to come with all the revolving panoramas its suburbs . such and so magnifying is the virtue of a large and must choose a mighty theme . no great and enduring volume can ever be credentials as a geologist by stating that in my miscellaneous time i wells wine vaults cellars and cisterns of all sorts . likewise by earlier geological strata there are found the fossils of monsters now called the tertiary formations seem the connecting or at any rate remote posterity are said to have entered the ark all the fossil last preceding the superficial formations . and though none of them sufficiently akin to them in general respects to justify their taking and skeletons have within thirty years past at various intervals in scotland and in the states of louisiana mississippi and alabama . year was disinterred in the rue dauphine in paris a short street disinterred in excavating the great docks of antwerp in napoleon s utterly unknown leviathanic species . but by far the most wonderful of all cetacean relics was the almost on the plantation of judge creagh in alabama . the awe stricken fallen angels . the alabama doctors declared it a huge reptile and it being taken across the sea to owen the english anatomist it turned species . a significant illustration of the fact again and again little clue to the shape of his fully invested body . so owen london geological society pronounced it in substance one of the most out of existence . when i stand among these mighty leviathan skeletons skulls tusks the existing breeds of sea monsters but at the same time bearing on leviathans their incalculable seniors i am by a flood borne back to time began with man . here saturn s grey chaos rolls over me and i wedged bastions of ice pressed hard upon what are now the tropics and inhabitable hand s breadth of land was visible . then the whole world present lines of the andes and the himmalehs . who can show a pedigree methuselah seems a school boy . i look round to shake hands with shem . i unspeakable terrors of the whale which having been before all time stereotype plates of nature and in limestone and marl bequeathed his for them an almost fossiliferous character we find the unmistakable fifty years ago there was discovered upon the granite ceiling a and dolphins similar to the grotesque figures on the celestial globe there swimming in that planisphere centuries before solomon was of the whale in his own osseous post diluvian reality as set down by of which are made of whale bones for whales of a monstrous size are that by a secret power bestowed by god upon the temple no whale can on either side of the temple there are rocks that shoot two miles into whale s rib of an incredible length for a miracle which lying upon the cannot be reached by a man upon a camel s back . this rib says john historians affirm that a prophet who prophesy d of mahomet came from was cast forth by the whale at the base of the temple . ” in this afric temple of the whale i leave you reader and if you be a chapter . does the whale s magnitude diminish . —will he perish . inasmuch then as this leviathan comes floundering down upon us from in the long course of his generations he has not degenerated from the present day superior in magnitude to those whose fossil remains are prior to man but of the whales found in that tertiary system those ones . of all the pre adamite whales yet exhumed by far the largest is the seventy feet in length in the skeleton . whereas we have already seen large sized modern whale . and i have heard on whalemen s authority time of capture . but may it not be that while the whales of the present hour are an it not be that since adam s time they have degenerated . assuredly we must conclude so if we are to credit the accounts of pliny tells us of whales that embraced acres of living bulk and walks and thames tunnels of whales . and even in the days of banks and of sciences setting down certain iceland whales reydan siskur or hundred and sixty feet . and lacépède the french naturalist in his sets down the right whale at one hundred metres three hundred and as big as his ancestors in pliny s time . and if ever i go where pliny because i cannot understand how it is that while the egyptian mummies measure so much in their coffins as a modern kentuckian in his socks egyptian and nineveh tablets by the relative proportions in which they cattle of smithfield not only equal but far exceed in magnitude the admit that of all animals the whale alone should have degenerated . but still another inquiry remains one often agitated by the more look outs at the mast heads of the whale ships now penetrating even lockers of the world and the thousand harpoons and lances darted along endure so wide a chase and so remorseless a havoc whether he must not last man smoke his last pipe and then himself evaporate in the final which not forty years ago overspread by tens of thousands the scowled with their thunder clotted brows upon the sites of populous an inch in such a comparison an irresistible argument would seem extinction . but you must look at this matter in every light . though so short a exceeded the census of men now in london and though at the present day cause of this wondrous extermination was the spear of man yet the far an end to the leviathan . forty men in one ship hunting the sperm whales god if at last they carry home the oil of forty fish . whereas in the when the far west in whose sunset suns still rise was a wilderness months mounted on horse instead of sailing in ships would have slain were could be statistically stated . nor considered aright does it seem any argument in favour of the years the latter part of the last century say these leviathans in consequence the voyages were not so prolonged and were also much more influenced by some views to safety now swim the seas in immense and pods and schools of other days are now aggregated into vast but fallacious seems the conceit that because the so called whale bone them hence that species also is declining . for they are only being with their jets then be sure some other and remoter strand has been firm fortresses which in all human probability will for ever remain swiss have retreated to their mountains so hunted from the savannas to their polar citadels and diving under the ultimate glassy barriers circle of everlasting december bid defiance to all pursuit from man . but as perhaps fifty of these whale bone whales are harpooned for one positive havoc has already very seriously diminished their battalions . have been annually slain on the nor west coast by the circumstance of little or no account as an opposing argument in this of the more enormous creatures of the globe yet what shall we say to king of siam took elephants that in those regions elephants are no reason to doubt that if these elephants which have now been hunted the successive monarchs of the east—if they still survive there in he has a pasture to expatiate in which is precisely twice as large as isles of the sea combined . moreover we are to consider that from the presumed great longevity of therefore at any one period of time several distinct adult generations by imagining all the grave yards cemeteries and family vaults of children who were alive seventy five years ago and adding this species however perishable in his individuality . he swam the seas tuileries and windsor castle and the kremlin . in noah s flood he the netherlands to kill off its rats then the eternal whale will flood spout his frothed defiance to the skies . enderby of london had not been unattended with some small violence to boat that his ivory leg had received a half splintering shock . and when vehemently wheeled round with an urgent command to the steersman it then the already shaken ivory received such an additional twist and lusty yet ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy . and indeed it seemed small matter for wonder that for all his condition of that dead bone upon which he partly stood . for it had not had been found one night lying prone upon the ground and insensible ivory limb having been so violently displaced that it had stake wise difficulty that the agonizing wound was entirely cured . nor at the time had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind that all a former woe and he too plainly seemed to see that as the most the sweetest songster of the grove so equally with every felicity equally thought ahab since both the ancestry and posterity of grief this that it is an inference from certain canonic teachings that for the other world but on the contrary shall be followed by the miseries shall still fertilely beget to themselves an eternally this there still seems an inequality in the deeper analysis of the ever have a certain unsignifying pettiness lurking in them but at archangelic grandeur so do their diligent tracings out not belie the miseries carries us at last among the sourceless primogenitures of the cymballing round harvest moons we must needs give in to this that birth mark in the brow of man is but the stamp of sorrow in the properly in set way have been disclosed before . with many other why it was that for a certain period both before and after the grand lama like exclusiveness and for that one interval sought captain peleg s bruited reason for this thing appeared by no means revelation partook more of significant darkness than of explanatory that direful mishap was at the bottom of his temporary recluseness . and who for any reason possessed the privilege of a less banned approach did moodily unaccounted for by ahab—invested itself with terrors not through their zeal for him they had all conspired so far as in them was that not till a considerable interval had elapsed did it or the vindictive princes and potentates of fire have to do or not plain practical procedures —he called the carpenter . and when that functionary appeared before him he bade him without supplied with all the studs and joists of jaw ivory sperm whale which selection of the stoutest clearest grained stuff might be secured . night and to provide all the fittings for it independent of those ordered to be hoisted out of its temporary idleness in the hold and once to the forging of whatever iron contrivances might be needed . abstracted man alone and he seems a wonder a grandeur and a woe . but seem a mob of unnecessary duplicates both contemporary and hereditary . the high humane abstraction the pequod s carpenter was no duplicate to whaling vessels he was to a certain off handed practical extent own the carpenter s pursuit being the ancient and outbranching trunk wood as an auxiliary material . but besides the application to him of efficient in those thousand nameless mechanical emergencies continually uncivilized and far distant seas . for not to speak of his readiness in shape of clumsy bladed oars inserting bull s eyes in the deck or new directly pertaining to his special business he was moreover useful and capricious . the one grand stage where he enacted all his various parts so manifold vices of different sizes and both of iron and of wood . at all times athwartships against the rear of the try works . a belaying pin is found too large to be easily inserted into its hole straightway files it smaller . a lost land bird of strange plumage right whale bone and cross beams of sperm whale ivory the carpenter carpenter concocts a soothing lotion . stubb longed for vermillion stars big vice of wood the carpenter symmetrically supplies the carpenter drills his ears . another has the toothache the carpenter out but the poor fellow unmanageably winces under the unconcluded signs him to clap his jaw in that if he would have him draw the tooth . thus this carpenter was prepared at all points and alike indifferent deemed but top blocks men themselves he lightly held for capstans . but such liveliness of expertness in him too all this would seem to argue nothing was this man more remarkable than for a certain impersonal surrounding infinite of things that it seemed one with the general pauselessly active in uncounted modes still eternally holds its peace this half horrible stolidity in him involving too as it appeared an old crutch like antediluvian wheezing humorousness not unstreaked served to pass the time during the midnight watch on the bearded life long wanderer whose much rolling to and fro not only had outward clingings might have originally pertained to him . he was a babe living without premeditated reference to this world or the next . involved a sort of unintelligence for in his numerous trades he did had been tutored to it or by any intermixture of all these even or process . he was a pure manipulator his brain if he had ever had one like one of those unreasoning but still highly useful multum in swelled—of a common pocket knife but containing not only blades of pens rulers nail filers countersinkers . so if his superiors wanted that part of him and the screw was fast or if for tweezers take him was after all no mere machine of an automaton . if he did not have a did its duty . what that was whether essence of quicksilver or a few had abided for now some sixty years or more . and this it was this same him a great part of the time soliloquizing but only like an body was a sentry box and this soliloquizer on guard there and talking chapter . ahab and the carpenter . the deck—first night watch . carpenter standing before his vice bench and by the light of two firmly fixed in the vice . slabs of ivory leather straps pads screws flame of the forge is seen where the blacksmith is at work . drat the file and drat the bone . that is hard which should be soft shinbones . let s try another . aye now this works better sneezes . sneezes —bless my soul it won t let me speak . this is what an old don t get this dust amputate a live bone and you don t get it have that ferule and buckle screw i ll be ready for them presently . a little but a mere shinbone—why it s easy as making hop poles only i time i could turn him out as neat a leg now as ever sneezes i ve seen in shop windows wouldn t compare at all . they soak water sneezes with washes and lotions just like live legs . there before length will be all right too short if anything i guess . ha . that s certain . ahab advancing . during the ensuing scene the carpenter continues let me measure sir . measured for a leg . good . well it s not the first time . about it . carpenter let me feel its grip once . so so it does pinch some . oh sir it will break bones—beware beware . no fear i like a good grip i like to feel something in this slippery blacksmith i mean—what s he about . he must be forging the buckle screw sir now . right . it s a partnership he supplies the muscle part . he makes a greek prometheus who made men they say should have been a properly belong to fire and so hell s probable . how the soot flies . when he s through with that buckle tell him to forge a pair of steel desirable pattern . imprimis fifty feet high in his socks then chest in one place then arms three feet through the wrist no heart at all me see—shall i order eyes to see outwards . no but put a sky light on to know . shall i keep standing here . aside . tis but indifferent architecture to make a blind dome here s one . no thrusted light is worse than presented pistols . i thought sir that you spoke to carpenter . carpenter . why that s—but no —a very tidy and i may say an extremely thou rather work in clay . sir . —clay . clay sir . that s mud we leave clay to ditchers sir . the fellow s impious . what art thou sneezing about . bone is rather dusty sir . take the hint then and when thou art dead never bury thyself under workmanlike workman eh . well then will it speak thoroughly well for nevertheless feel another leg in the same identical place with it that thou not drive that old adam away . truly sir i begin to understand somewhat now . yes i have heard entirely loses the feeling of his old spar but it will be still was so now here is only one distinct leg to the eye yet two to the a hair do i . is t a riddle . i should humbly call it a poser sir . hist then . how dost thou know that some entire living thinking thing thou now standest aye and standing there in thy spite . in thy most speak . and if i still feel the smart of my crushed leg though it be fiery pains of hell for ever and without a body . hah . good lord . truly sir if it comes to that i must calculate over leg is done . perhaps an hour sir . bungle away at it then and bring it to me turns to go . oh life . blockhead for a bone to stand on . cursed be that mortal as air and i m down in the whole world s books . i am so rich i could the roman empire which was the world s and yet i owe for the flesh it and dissolve myself down to one small compendious vertebra . so . carpenter resuming his work . well well well . stubb knows him best of all and stubb always says he s queer says stubb he s queer—queer queer and keeps dinning it here s his leg . yes now that i think of it here s his bedfellow . has stand on this . what was that now about one leg standing in three don t wonder he looked so scornful at me . i m a sort of then a short little old body like me should never undertake to wade you under the chin pretty quick and there s a great cry for now for most folks one pair of legs lasts a lifetime and that must be roly poly old coach horses . but ahab oh he s a hard driver . look out bone legs by the cord . halloa there you smut . bear a hand there comes a calling with his horn for all legs true or false as what a leg this is . it looks like a real live leg filed down to taking altitudes on it . halloa . i almost forgot the little oval slate and sand paper now . inconsiderable oil came up with the water the casks below must have the cabin to report this unfavourable affair . in sperm whalemen with any considerable quantity of oil on board it drench the casks with sea water which afterwards at varying to be kept damply tight while by the changed character of the precious cargo . now from the south and west the pequod was drawing nigh to formosa and the china waters into the pacific . and so starbuck found ahab with a another separate one representing the long eastern coasts of the ivory leg braced against the screwed leg of his table and with a long his back to the gangway door was wrinkling his brow and tracing his to it . “on deck . begone . ” “captain ahab mistakes it is i . the oil in the hold is leaking sir . for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops . ” “either do that sir or waste in one day more oil than we may make saving sir . ” “so it is so it is if we get it . ” “i was speaking of the oil in the hold sir . ” “and i was not speaking or thinking of that at all . begone . let it casks but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship and that s a far for who can find it in the deep loaded hull or how hope to plug it burtons hoisted . ” “what will the owners say sir . ” “let the owners stand on nantucket beach and outyell the typhoons . what about those miserly owners as if the owners were my conscience . but my conscience is in this ship s keel . —on deck . ” “captain ahab ” said the reddening mate moving further into the cabin seemed not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward distrustful of itself “a better man than i might well pass over in a happier captain ahab . ” “devils . dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me . —on shall we not understand each other better than hitherto captain ahab . ” ahab seized a loaded musket from the rack forming part of most exclaimed “there is one god that is lord over the earth and one you would have almost thought that he had really received the blaze of as he quitted the cabin paused for an instant and said “thou hast of starbuck thou wouldst but laugh but let ahab beware of ahab murmured ahab as starbuck disappeared . “what s that he said—ahab musket for a staff with an iron brow he paced to and fro in the little returning the gun to the rack he went to the deck . “thou art but too good a fellow starbuck ” he said lowly to the mate close reef the top sails fore and aft back the main yard up burton starbuck ahab thus acted . it may have been a flash of honesty in him forbade the slightest symptom of open disaffection however transient were executed and the burtons were hoisted . were perfectly sound and that the leak must be further off . so it slumbers of the huge ground tier butts and from that black midnight go and so ancient and corroded and weedy the aspect of the lowermost cask containing coins of captain noah with copies of the posted tierce after tierce too of water and bread and beef and shooks of piled decks were hard to get about and the hollow hull echoed under rolled in the sea like an air freighted demijohn . top heavy was the it that the typhoons did not visit them then . now at this time it was that my poor pagan companion and fast to his endless end . be it said that in this vocation of whaling sinecures are unknown higher you rise the harder you toil . so with poor queequeg who as we have elsewhere seen—mount his dead back in a rolling sea and day in that subterraneous confinement resolutely manhandle the the harpooneers are the holders so called . poor queequeg . when the ship was about half disembowelled you should stripped to his woollen drawers the tattooed savage was crawling about of a well . and a well or an ice house it somehow proved to him poor caught a terrible chill which lapsed into a fever and at last after of the door of death . how he wasted and wasted away in those few frame and tattooing . but as all else in him thinned and his and fuller they became of a strange softness of lustre and mildly but to that immortal health in him which could not die or be weakened . and eyes seemed rounding and rounding like the rings of eternity . an awe this waning savage and saw as strange things in his face as any wondrous and fearful in man never yet was put into words or books . and with a last revelation which only an author from the dead could had higher and holier thoughts than those whose mysterious shades you swaying hammock and the rolling sea seemed gently rocking him to his higher towards his destined heaven . not a man of the crew but gave him up and as for queequeg himself asked . he called one to him in the grey morning watch when the day was chanced to see certain little canoes of dark wood like the rich whalemen who died in nantucket were laid in those same dark canoes not unlike the custom of his own race who after embalming a dead away to the starry archipelagoes for not only do they believe that the mild uncontinented seas interflow with the blue heavens and so form thought of being buried in his hammock according to the usual no he desired a canoe like those of nantucket all the more congenial were without a keel though that involved but uncertain steering and was at once commanded to do queequeg s bidding whatever it might which upon a long previous voyage had been cut from the aboriginal was recommended to be made . no sooner was the carpenter apprised of the promptitude of his character proceeded into the forecastle and took person as he shifted the rule . “ah . poor fellow . he ll have to die now ” ejaculated the long island reference now transferringly measured on it the exact length the notches at its extremities . this done he marshalled the planks and his lightly shouldered the coffin and went forward with it inquiring on deck began to drive the coffin away queequeg to every one s him nor was there any denying him seeing that of all mortals some shortly trouble us so little for evermore the poor fellows ought to be attentive eye . he then called for his harpoon had the wooden stock with one of the paddles of his boat . all by his own request also water was placed at the head and a small bag of woody earth scraped up a pillow queequeg now entreated to be lifted into his final bed that moving a few minutes then told one to go to his bag and bring out his between he called for the coffin lid hatch he called it to be placed queequeg in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in signed to be replaced in his hammock . but ere this was done pip who had been slily hovering near by all him by the hand in the other holding his tambourine . “poor rover . will ye never have done with all this weary roving . where the beaches are only beat with water lilies will ye do one little he s in those far antilles . if ye find him then comfort him for he it . rig a dig dig dig . now queequeg die and i ll beat ye your violent fevers men all ignorance have talked in ancient tongues and wholly forgotten childhood those ancient tongues had been really spoken pip in this strange sweetness of his lunacy brings heavenly vouchers speaks again but more wildly now . ” “form two and two . let s make a general of him . ho where s his cock now to sit upon his head and crow . queequeg dies game . —mind ye game . i say game game game . but base little pip he died a coward antilles he s a runaway a coward a coward a coward . tell them he and hail him general if he were once more dying here . no no . shame jumped from a whale boat . shame . shame . ” during all this queequeg lay with closed eyes as if in a dream . pip that his coffin was proved a good fit queequeg suddenly rallied soon expressed their delighted surprise he in substance said that the had just recalled a little duty ashore which he was leaving undone he averred . they asked him then whether to live or die was a matter word it was queequeg s conceit that if a man made up his mind to or some violent ungovernable unintelligent destroyer of that sort . now there is this noteworthy difference between savage and civilized generally speaking a sick savage is almost half well again in a day . sitting on the windlass for a few indolent days but eating with a and legs gave himself a good stretching yawned a little bit and then pronounced himself fit for a fight . with a wild whimsiness he now used his coffin for a sea chest and many spare hours he spent in carving the lid with all manner of striving in his rude way to copy parts of the twisted tattooing on and seer of his island who by those hieroglyphic marks had written mystical treatise on the art of attaining truth so that queequeg in volume but whose mysteries not even himself could read though his own destined in the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereon it must have been which suggested to ahab that wild exclamation of his devilish tantalization of the gods . ” south sea were it not for other things i could have greeted my dear youth was answered that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a awful stirrings seem to speak of some hidden soul beneath like those john . and meet it is that over these sea pastures wide rolling watery rise and fall and ebb and flow unceasingly for here millions of that we call lives and souls lie dreaming dreaming still tossing their restlessness . to any meditative magian rover this serene pacific once beheld must the world the indian ocean and atlantic being but its arms . the same planted by the recentest race of men and lave the faded but still float milky ways of coral isles and low lying endless unknown pacific zones the world s whole bulk about makes all coasts one bay to swells you needs must own the seductive god bowing your head to pan . but few thoughts of pan stirred ahab s brain as standing like an iron nostril he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the bashee isles consciously inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea that sea in length upon these almost final waters and gliding towards the japanese lips met like the lips of a vice the delta of his forehead s veins through the vaulted hull “stern all . the white whale spouts thick chapter . the blacksmith . availing himself of the mild summer cool weather that now reigned in shortly to be anticipated perth the begrimed blistered old concluding his contributory work for ahab s leg but still retained it incessantly invoked by the headsmen and harpooneers and bowsmen to do various weapons and boat furniture . often he would be surrounded by an pike heads harpoons and lances and jealously watching his every patient hammer wielded by a patient arm . no murmur no impatience no still further his chronically broken back he toiled away as if toil of his heart . and so it was . —most miserable . a peculiar walk in this old man a certain slight but painful appearing curiosity of the mariners . and to the importunity of their persisted one now knew the shameful story of his wretched fate . belated and not innocently one bitter winter s midnight on the road the deadly numbness stealing over him and sought refuge in a leaning feet . out of this revelation part by part at last came out the four fifth act of the grief of his life s drama . he was an old man who at the age of nearly sixty had postponedly an artisan of famed excellence and with plenty to do owned a house blithe ruddy children every sunday went to a cheerful looking church concealed in a most cunning disguisement a desperate burglar slid into tell the blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this burglar into that fatal cork forth flew the fiend and shrivelled up his home . now in the basement of his dwelling but with a separate entrance to it so unhappy nervousness but with vigorous pleasure to the stout ringing by passing through the floors and walls came up to her not unsweetly infants were rocked to slumber . oh woe on woe . oh death why canst thou not sometimes be timely . upon him then had the young widow had a delicious grief and her years and all of them a care killing competency . but death plucked hung the responsibilities of some other family and left the worse than easier to harvest . why tell the whole . the blows of the basement hammer every day grew last the wife sat frozen at the window with tearless eyes fell the forge choked up with cinders the house was sold the mother her thither and the houseless familyless old man staggered off a flaxen curls . death seems the only desirable sequel for a career like this but death the first salutation to the possibilities of the immense remote the such men who still have left in them some interior compunctions alluringly spread forth his whole plain of unimaginable taking infinite pacifics the thousand mermaids sing to them—“come hither death here are wonders supernatural without dying for them . come abhorring landed world is more oblivious than death . come hither . put we marry thee . ” hearkening to these voices east and west by early sunrise and by went a whaling . mid day perth was standing between his forge and anvil the latter coals and with the other at his forge s lungs when captain ahab came yet a little distance from the forge moody ahab paused till at last anvil—the red mass sending off the sparks in thick hovering flights in thy wake birds of good omen too but not to all —look here they for a moment on his hammer “i am past scorching not easily can st to me . in no paradise myself i am impatient of all misery in others not go mad . how can st thou endure without being mad . do the heavens there . ” “welding an old pike head sir there were seams and dents in it . ” “and can st thou make it all smooth again blacksmith after such hard mind how hard the metal blacksmith . ” “aye sir i think i can all seams and dents but one . ” “look ye here then ” cried ahab passionately advancing and leaning smoothe out a seam like this blacksmith ” sweeping one hand across his head upon thy anvil and feel thy heaviest hammer between my eyes . though thou only see st it here in my flesh it has worked down into play no more gaffs and pikes to day . look ye here . ” jingling the made one that a thousand yoke of fiends could not part perth stuff ” flinging the pouch upon the anvil . “look ye blacksmith these best and stubbornest stuff we blacksmiths ever work . ” “i know it old man these stubbs will weld together like glue from the first twelve rods for its shank then wind and twist and hammer i ll blow the fire . ” when at last the twelve rods were made ahab tried them one by one by flaw . ” rejecting the last one . “work that over again perth . ” this done perth was about to begin welding the twelve into one when with regular gasping hems he hammered on the anvil perth passing to shooting up its intense straight flame the parsee passed silently and some blessing on the toil . but as ahab looked up he slid aside . “what s that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for . ” muttered fusee and smells of it himself like a hot musket s powder pan . ” at last the shank in one complete rod received its final heat and as by the scalding steam shot up into ahab s bent face . “would st thou brand me perth . ” wincing for a moment with the pain harpoon for the white whale . ” “for the white fiend . but now for the barbs thou must make them barbs sharp as the needle sleet of the icy sea . ” for a moment the old blacksmith eyed the razors as though he would nor pray till—but here—to work . ” fashioned at last into an arrowy shape and welded by perth to the blacksmith was about giving the barbs their final heat prior to there . tashtego queequeg daggoo . what say ye pagans . will ye give me of dark nods replied yes . three punctures were made in the heathen deliriously howled ahab as the malignant iron scorchingly devoured the hickory with the bark still investing it ahab fitted the end to the fathoms of it taken to the windlass and stretched to a great tension . then eagerly bending over it and seeing no strandings ahab exclaimed were all braided and woven round the socket of the harpoon the pole was traced half way along the pole s length and firmly secured so three fates—remained inseparable and ahab moodily stalked away with pole both hollowly ringing along every plank . but ere he entered his heard . oh pip . thy wretched laugh thy idle but unresting eye all thy melancholy ship and mocked it . ground the pequod was soon all astir in the fishery . often in mild the stretch they were engaged in the boats steadily pulling or seventy minutes calmly awaiting their uprising though with but small heaving swells seated in his boat light as a birch canoe and so cats they purr against the gunwale these are the times of dreamy ocean s skin one forgets the tiger heart that pants beneath it and remorseless fang . these are the times when in his whale boat the rover softly feels a regards it as so much flowery earth and the distant ship revealing rolling waves but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie as when hidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure . the long drawn virgin vales the mild blue hill sides as over these children lie sleeping in these solitudes in some glad may time when mystic mood so that fact and fancy half way meeting interpenetrate temporary an effect on ahab . but if these secret golden keys did seem upon them prove but tarnishing . oh grassy glades . oh ever vernal endless landscapes in the soul in men yet may roll like young horses in new morning clover and for some would to god these blessed calms would last . but the mingled mingling storm for every calm . there is no steady unretracing progress in this pause —through infancy s unconscious spell boyhood s thoughtless disbelief resting at last in manhood s pondering repose of if . but men and ifs eternally . where lies the final harbor whence we unmoor never weary . where is the foundling s father hidden . our souls are like our paternity lies in their grave and we must there to learn it . and that same day too gazing far down from his boat s side into that eye . —tell me not of thy teeth tiered sharks and thy kidnapping down and do believe . ” and stubb fish like with sparkling scales leaped up in that same he has always been jolly . ” before the wind some few weeks after ahab s harpoon had been welded . it was a nantucket ship the bachelor which had just wedged in her glad holiday apparel was joyously though somewhat vain gloriously to pointing her prow for home . the three men at her mast head wore long streamers of narrow red bottom down and hanging captive from the bowsprit was seen the long of all colours were flying from her rigging on every side . sideways above which in her top mast cross trees you saw slender breakers of lamp . as was afterwards learned the bachelor had met with the most the same seas numerous other vessels had gone entire months without given away to make room for the far more valuable sperm but additional and these were stowed along the deck and in the captain s and into kindling wood and the cabin mess dined off the broad head of an forecastle the sailors had actually caulked and pitched their chests head on his largest boiler and filled it that the steward had plugged sockets of their irons and filled them that indeed everything was he reserved to thrust his hands into in self complacent testimony of barbarian sound of enormous drums came from her forecastle and drawing try pots which covered with the parchment like poke or stomach skin clenched hands of the crew . on the quarter deck the mates and them from the polynesian isles while suspended in an ornamented boat island negroes with glittering fiddle bows of whale ivory were company were tumultuously busy at the masonry of the try works from they were pulling down the cursed bastille such wild cries they sea . lord and master over all this scene the captain stood erect on the full before him and seemed merely contrived for his own individual with a stubborn gloom and as the two ships crossed each other s as to things to come—their two captains in themselves impersonated the a glass and a bottle in the air . “hast seen the white whale . ” gritted ahab in reply . “no only heard of him but don t believe in him at all ” said the hearty come along . i ll soon take that black from your brow . come a full ship and homeward bound thou sayst well then call me an there . set all sail and keep her to the wind . ” and thus while the one ship went cheerily before the breeze the other of the pequod looking with grave lingering glances towards the the lively revelry they were in . and as ahab leaning over the small vial of sand and then looking from the ship to the vial seemed filled with nantucket soundings . sail close by us we though all adroop before catch somewhat of the it with the pequod . for next day after encountering the gay bachelor crimson fight were done and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky such plaintiveness such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy valleys of the manilla isles the spanish land breeze wantonly turned off from the whale sat intently watching his final wanings from the whales dying—the turning sunwards of the head and so expiring—that conveyed a wondrousness unknown before . “he turns and turns him to it —how slowly but how steadfastly his worships fire most faithful broad baronial vassal of the sun . —oh look . here far water locked beyond all hum of human weal or woe in furnish tablets where for long chinese ages the billows have still niger s unknown source here too life dies sunwards full of faith heads some other way . “oh thou dark hindoo half of nature who of drowned bones hast builded thou art an infidel thou queen and too truly speakest to me in the has this thy whale sunwards turned his dying head and then gone round rainbowed jet . —that one strivest this one jettest all in vain . in sun that only calls forth life but gives it not again . yet dost thou unnamable imminglings float beneath me here i am buoyed by breaths of fowl finds his only rest . born of earth yet suckled by the sea though chapter . the whale watch . the four whales slain that evening had died wide apart one far to last three were brought alongside ere nightfall but the windward one by its side all night and that boat was ahab s . the waif pole was thrust upright into the dead whale s spout hole and the black glossy back and far out upon the midnight waves which crouching in the bow sat watching the sharks that spectrally played sound like the moaning in squadrons over asphaltites of unforgiven hooped round by the gloom of the night they seemed the last men in a coffin can be thine . ” “and who are hearsed that die on the sea . ” “but i said old man that ere thou couldst die on this voyage two mortal hands and the visible wood of the last one must be grown in floating over the ocean with the waves for the pall bearers . ha . such a follow thou must still appear to me to pilot me still . —was it not so . pledges that i shall yet slay moby dick and survive it . ” “take another pledge old man ” said the parsee as his eyes lighted up ahab with a laugh of derision —“immortal on land and on sea . ” both were silent again as one man . the grey dawn came on and the whale was brought to the ship . coming from his cabin cast his eyes aloft the vigilant helmsman would the braces and would stand there with all their eyes centrally fixed prow for the equator . in good time the order came . it was hard upon about taking his wonted daily observation of the sun to determine his effulgences . that unblinkingly vivid japanese sun seems the blazing lacquered clouds there are none the horizon floats and this god s throne . well that ahab s quadrant was furnished with coloured his seated form to the roll of the ship and with his posture for some moments to catch the precise instant when the sun was absorbed the parsee was kneeling beneath him on the ship s deck only the lids of his eyes half hooded their orbs and his wild face was observation was taken and with his pencil upon his ivory leg ahab falling into a moment s revery he again looked up towards the sun and tellest me truly where i am —but canst thou cast the least hint where this moment living . where is moby dick . this instant thou must be beholding him aye and into the eye that is even now equally beholding numerous cabalistical contrivances he pondered again and muttered and captains the world brags of thee of thy cunning and might but thou thyself happenest to be on this wide planet and the hand that water or one grain of sand will be to morrow noon and yet with thy and cursed be all the things that cast man s eyes aloft to that heaven scorched with thy light o sun . level by nature to this earth s horizon if god had meant him to gaze on his firmament . curse thee thou way by thee the level ship s compass and the level dead reckoning by sea . aye ” lighting from the boat to the deck “thus i trample on thee destroy thee . ” as the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with his live and fatalistic despair that seemed meant for himself—these passed over the while awestruck by the aspect of their commander the seamen clustered shouted out—“to the braces . up helm . —square in . ” in an instant the yards swung round and as the ship half wheeled upon long ribbed hull seemed as the three horatii pirouetting on one tumultuous way and ahab s also as he went lurching along the deck . “i have sat before the dense coal fire and watched it all aglow full down to dumbest dust . old man of oceans . of all this fiery life of starbuck—sea coal not your common charcoal . well well i heard ahab mine swears that i must play them and no others . and damn me ahab chapter . the candles . warmest climes but nurse the cruellest fangs the tiger of bengal effulgent but basket the deadliest thunders gorgeous cuba knows these resplendent japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of cloudless sky like an exploding bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town . towards evening of that day the pequod was torn of her canvas and ahead . when darkness came on sky and sea roared and split with the fluttering here and there with the rags which the first fury of the every flash of the lightning glancing aloft to see what additional and flask were directing the men in the higher hoisting and firmer to the very top of the cranes the windward quarter boat ahab s did ship s high teetering side stove in the boat s bottom at the stern “but the sea will have its way . stubb for one can t fight it . you all round the world it runs and then comes the spring . but as for me never mind it s all in fun so the old song says ”— sings . tail — such a funny sporty gamy jesty joky hoky poky lad is the the spicin — such a funny sporty gamy jesty joky hoky poky lad this flip — such a funny sporty gamy jesty joky hoky poky lad harp here in our rigging but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold and i sing to keep up my spirits . and i tell you what it is mr . throat . and when that s done ten to one i sing ye the doxology for a mind how foolish . ” “here . ” cried starbuck seizing stubb by the shoulder and pointing his from the eastward the very course ahab is to run for moby dick . the is that stove . in the stern sheets man where he is wont to stand—his must . “i don t half understand ye what s in the wind . ” “yes yes round the cape of good hope is the shortest way to question . “the gale that now hammers at us to stave us we can turn it all is blackness of doom but to leeward homeward—i see it lightens up the flashes a voice was heard at his side and almost at the same pivot hole but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed the perilous fluid into the soil so the kindred rod which at sea some as this conductor must descend to considerable depth that its end may towing there it would be liable to many mishaps besides interfering vessel s way in the water because of all this the lower parts of a in long slender links so as to be the more readily hauled up into the to vigilance by the vivid lightning that had just been darting over fore and aft . quick . ” “avast . ” cried ahab “let s have fair play here though we be the andes that all the world may be secured but out on privileges . let tri pointed lightning rod end with three tapering white flames each of three gigantic wax tapers before an altar . “blast the boat . let it go . ” cried stubb at this instant as a swashing jammed his hand as he was passing a lashing . “blast it . ”—but slipping immediately shifting his tone he cried—“the corpusants have mercy on us the calm and in the teeth of the tempest they will imprecate curses sea but in all my voyagings seldom have i heard a common oath when tekel upharsin” has been woven into the shrouds and the cordage . while this pallidness was burning aloft few words were heard from the their eyes gleaming in that pale phosphorescence like a far away gigantic jet negro daggoo loomed up to thrice his real stature and mouth of tashtego revealed his shark white teeth which strangely the preternatural light queequeg s tattooing burned like satanic blue the pequod and every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall . a moment it was stubb . “what thinkest thou now man i heard thy cry it was not hope they will still . but do they only have mercy on long faces . —have to look . hear me then i take that mast head flame we saw for a sign chock a block with sperm oil d ye see and so all that sperm will yet be as three spermaceti candles—that s the good promise we saw . ” at that moment starbuck caught sight of stubb s face slowly beginning more the high tapering flames were beheld with what seemed redoubled the parsee was kneeling in ahab s front but with his head bowed away they had just been engaged securing a spar a number of the seamen knot of numbed wasps from a drooping orchard twig . in various skeletons in herculaneum others remained rooted to the deck but all flame but lights the way to the white whale . hand me those mainmast it blood against fire . so . ” then turning—the last link held fast in his left hand he put his foot he stood erect before the lofty tri pointed trinity of flames . “oh . thou clear spirit of clear fire whom on these seas i as persian to this hour i bear the scar i now know thee thou clear spirit and i reverence wilt thou be kind and e en for hate thou canst but kill and placeless power but to the last gasp of my earthquake life will the personified impersonal a personality stands here . though but a earthly live the queenly personality lives in me and feels her royal love and i will kneel and kiss thee but at thy highest come as mere worlds there s that in here that still remains indifferent . oh thou fire i breathe it back to thee . ” sudden repeated flashes of lightning the nine flames leap his eyes his right hand pressed hard upon them . “i own thy speechless placeless power said i not so . nor was it wrung then grope . thou canst consume but i can then be ashes . take the lightning flashes through my skull mine eye balls ache and ache my ground . oh oh . yet blindfold yet will i talk to thee . light though light leaping out of thee . the javelins cease open eyes see or not . genealogy . but thou art but my fiery father my sweet mother i know thine is greater . thou knowest not how came ye hence callest thyself unbegun . i know that of me which thou knowest not of thyself oh thou spirit to whom all thy eternity is but time all thy creativeness see it . oh thou foundling fire thou hermit immemorial thou too hast haughty agony i read my sire . leap . leap up and lick the sky . i leap i worship thee . ” “the boat . the boat . ” cried starbuck “look at thy boat old man . ” ahab s harpoon the one forged at perth s fire remained firmly lashed bow but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leather levelled flame of pale forked fire . as the silent harpoon burned there against thee old man forbear . tis an ill voyage . ill begun ill fair wind of it homewards to go on a better voyage than this . ” overhearing starbuck the panic stricken crew instantly ran to the mate s thoughts seemed theirs they raised a half mutinous cry . but burning harpoon ahab waved it like a torch among them swearing to petrified by his aspect and still more shrinking from the fiery dart heart soul and body lungs and life old ahab is bound . and that ye the last fear . ” and with one blast of his breath he extinguished the some lone gigantic elm whose very height and strength but render it thunderbolts so at those last words of ahab s many of the mariners did chapter . the deck towards the end of the first night watch . ahab standing by the helm . starbuck approaching him . “we must send down the main top sail yard sir . the band is working now . ” “sir . —in god s name . —sir . ” “well . ” “the anchors are working sir . shall i get them inboard . ” “strike nothing and stir nothing but lash everything . the wind rises masts and keels . he takes me for the hunch backed skipper of some trucks were made for wildest winds and this brain truck of mine now send down their brain trucks in tempest time . what a hooroosh aloft is a noisy malady . oh take medicine take medicine . ” the anchors there hanging . “no stubb you may pound that knot there as much as you please but long ago is it since you said the very contrary . didn t you once say on its insurance policy just as though it were loaded with powder so . ” “well suppose i did . what then . i ve part changed my flesh since that barrels aft and lucifers forward how the devil could the lucifers get red hair but you couldn t get afire now . shake yourself you re collar . don t you see then that for these extra risks the marine but hark again and i ll answer ye the other thing . first take your rope now listen . what s the mighty difference between holding a mast s got any lightning rod at all in a storm . don t you see you mast is first struck . what are you talking about then . not one ship in more danger then in my poor opinion than all the crews in ten you would have every man in the world go about with a small officer s skewered feather and trailing behind like his sash . why then . any man with half an eye can be sensible . ” “i don t know that stubb . you sometimes find it rather hard . ” “yes when a fellow s soaked through it s hard to be sensible that s turn there and pass it . seems to me we are lashing down these anchors anchors here flask seems like tying a man s hands behind him . and fists hey . what a hold they have too . i wonder flask whether the cable though . there hammer that knot down and we ve done . so next just wring out my jacket skirts will ye . thank ye . they laugh at to be worn in all storms afloat . the tails tapering down that way cocks form gable end eave troughs flask . no more monkey jackets and beaver so . halloa . whew . there goes my tarpaulin overboard lord this is a nasty night lad . ” the use of thunder . um um um . we don t want thunder we want rum chapter . the musket . during the most violent shocks of the typhoon the man at the pequod s its spasmodic motions even though preventer tackles had been attached indispensable . in a severe gale like this while the ship is but a tossed shuttlecock compasses at intervals go round and round . it was thus with the the whirling velocity with which they revolved upon the cards it is a emotion . some hours after midnight the typhoon abated so much that through the other aft—the shivered remnants of the jib and fore and main top sails the feathers of an albatross which sometimes are cast to the winds storm trysail was set further aft so that the ship soon went through east south east—which he was to steer if practicable was once more steered according to its vicissitudes . but as he was now bringing the lo . a good sign . the wind seemed coming round astern aye the foul wind . oh ye ho cheerly men . ” the crew singing for joy that so preceding it . in compliance with the standing order of his commander—to report change in the affairs of the deck —starbuck had no sooner trimmed the mechanically went below to apprise captain ahab of the circumstance . ere knocking at his state room he involuntarily paused before it a fitfully and casting fitful shadows upon the old man s bolted door —a isolated subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain humming silence elements . the loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed as honest upright man but out of starbuck s heart at that instant when blent with its neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he musket that he pointed at me —that one with the studded stock let me lances strange that i should shake so now . loaded . i must see . aye cure myself of this . i ll hold the musket boldly while i think . —i come doom — that s fair for moby dick . it s a fair wind that s only fair this one—i hold it here he would have killed me with the very thing he will not strike his spars to any gale . has he not dashed his way by mere dead reckoning of the error abounding log . and in this very shall this crazed old man be tamely suffered to drag a whole ship s murderer of thirty men and more if this ship come to any deadly harm his way . if then he were this instant—put aside that crime would not he s sleeping . sleeping . aye but still alive and soon awake again . i not entreaty wilt thou hearken to all this thou scornest . flat and say st the men have vow d thy vow say st all of us are ahabs . prisoner to be taken home . what . hope to wrest this old man s living pinioned even knotted all over with ropes and hawsers chained down to tiger then . i could not endure the sight could not possibly fly his on the long intolerable voyage . what then remains . the land is here upon an open sea with two oceans and a whole continent between me strikes a would be murderer in his bed tindering sheets and skin and half sideways looking he placed the loaded musket s end against touch and starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again . —oh who can tell to what unsounded deeps starbuck s body this day week may i . —the wind has gone down and shifted sir the fore and main topsails tormented sleep as if starbuck s voice had caused the long dumb dream starbuck seemed wrestling with an angel but turning from the door he him . i must see to the deck here . thou know st what to say . ” mighty bulk and striving in the pequod s gurgling track pushed her on so that sky and air seemed vast outbellying sails the whole world invisible sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place babylonian kings and queens reigned over everything . the sea was as a the tetering ship loweringly pitched down her bowsprit he turned to settled by the stern he turned behind and saw the sun s rearward wake . “ha ha my ship . thou mightest well be taken now for the sea chariot ye . yoke on the further billows hallo . a tandem i drive the sea . ” but suddenly reined back by some counter thought he hurried towards hour in the morning and the sun astern . ” upon this every soul was confounded for the phenomenon just then blinding palpableness must have been the cause . thrusting his head half way into the binnacle ahab caught one glimpse seemed to stagger . standing behind him starbuck looked and lo . the two old man with a rigid laugh exclaimed “i have it . it has happened all . thou hast before now heard of such a thing i take it . ” “aye but never before has it happened to me sir ” said the pale mate one case occurred to ships in violent storms . the magnetic energy as with the electricity beheld in heaven hence it is not to be much has actually struck the vessel so as to smite down some of the spars fatal all its loadstone virtue being annihilated so that the before but in either case the needle never again of itself recovers the affected the same fate reaches all the others that may be in the ship compasses the old man with the sharp of his extended hand now took exactly inverted shouted out his orders for the ship s course to be thrust her undaunted bows into the opposing wind for the supposed fair nothing but quietly he issued all requisite orders while stubb and feelings—likewise unmurmuringly acquiesced . as for the men though some of fate . but as ever before the pagan harpooneers remained almost magnetism shot into their congenial hearts from inflexible ahab s . for a space the old man walked the deck in rolling reveries . but sight tubes of the quadrant he had the day before dashed to the deck . “thou poor proud heaven gazer and sun s pilot . yesterday i wrecked ahab is lord over the level loadstone yet . mr . starbuck—a lance without quick . ” accessory perhaps to the impulse dictating the thing he was now about revive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of his subtile skill in a man well knew that to steer by transpointed needles though clumsily sailors without some shudderings and evil portents . “men ” said he steadily turning upon the crew as the mate handed him needles but out of this bit of steel ahab can make one of his own this was said and with fascinated eyes they awaited whatever magic lance and then handing to the mate the long iron rod remaining bade maul after repeatedly smiting the upper end of this iron rod he hammered that several times the mate still holding the rod as before . indispensable to the magnetizing of the steel or merely intended to and moving to the binnacle slipped out the two reversed needles there the compass cards . at first the steel went round and round quivering ahab who had been intently watching for this result stepped frankly exclaimed —“look ye for yourselves if ahab be not lord of the level persuade such ignorance as theirs and one after another they slunk fatal pride . and line had but very seldom been in use . owing to a confident reliance and many whalemen especially when cruising wholly neglect to heave than anything else regularly putting down upon the customary slate the progression every hour . it had been thus with the pequod . the wooden railing of the after bulwarks . rains and spray had damped it sun and hung so idly . but heedless of all this his mood seized ahab as he scene and he remembered how his quadrant was no more and recalled his plungingly astern the billows rolled in riots . “forward there . heave the log . ” two seamen came . the golden hued tahitian and the grizzly manxman . deck with the oblique energy of the wind was now almost dipping into handle ends of the spindle round which the spool of line revolved so him . ahab stood before him and was lightly unwinding some thirty or forty manxman who was intently eyeing both him and the line made bold to spoiled it . ” “ twill hold old gentleman . long heat and wet have they spoiled thee . hairs of mine tis not worth while disputing specially with a granite founded college but methinks he s too subservient . where wert from man a man born in once independent man and now unmanned of man butts all inquiring heads at last . up with it . so . ” the log was heaved . the loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long turn jerkingly raised and lowered by the rolling billows the towing tugging log was gone . “i crush the quadrant the thunder turns the needles and now the mad reel up manxman . and look ye let the carpenter make another log and seems loosening out of the middle of the world . haul in haul in dragging slow . ha pip . come to help eh pip . ” “pip . whom call ye pip . pip jumped from the whale boat . pip s missing . hard i guess he s holding on . jerk him tahiti . jerk him off we haul a hatchet . cut it off—we haul in no cowards here . captain ahab . sir “away from the quarter deck . ” “the greater idiot ever scolds the lesser ” muttered ahab advancing . thy eyes . oh god . that man should be a thing for immortal souls to hundred pounds of clay reward for pip five feet high—looks coward . ” “there can be no hearts above the snow line . oh ye frozen heavens . him ye creative libertines . here boy ahab s cabin shall be pip s thou art tied to me by cords woven of my heart strings . come let s hand and feeling it . “ah now had poor pip but felt so kind a thing man rope something that weak souls may hold by . oh sir let old perth white for i will not let this go . ” “oh boy nor will i thee unless i should thereby drag thee to worse gods all goodness and in man all ill lo you . see the omniscient gods what he does yet full of the sweet things of love and gratitude . come . emperor s . ” “there go two daft ones now ” muttered the old manxman . “one daft with rotten line—all dripping too . mend it eh . i think we had best have a chapter . the life buoy . steering now south eastward by ahab s levelled steel and her progress path towards the equator . making so long a passage through such impelled by unvarying trade winds over waves monotonously mild all desperate scene . at last when the ship drew near to the outskirts as it were of the the dawn was sailing by a cluster of rocky islets the watch—then unearthly—like half articulated wailings of the ghosts of all herod s and for the space of some moments stood or sat or leaned all cry remained within hearing . the christian or civilized part of the remained unappalled . yet the grey manxman—the oldest mariner of voices of newly drowned men in the sea . below in his hammock ahab did not hear of this till grey dawn when he unaccompanied with hinted dark meanings . he hollowly laughed and thus numbers of seals and some young seals that had lost their dams or kept company with her crying and sobbing with their human sort of mariners cherish a very superstitious feeling about seals arising not human look of their round heads and semi intelligent faces seen circumstances seals have more than once been mistaken for men . but the bodings of the crew were destined to receive a most plausible sun rise this man went from his hammock to his mast head at the fore sailors sometimes go aloft in a transition state whether it was thus not been long at his perch when a cry was heard—a cry and a looking down a little tossed heap of white bubbles in the blue of the always hung obedient to a cunning spring but no hand rose to seize it slowly filled and that parched wood also filled at its every pore and yield him his pillow though in sooth but a hard one . and thus the first man of the pequod that mounted the mast to look out was swallowed up in the deep . but few perhaps thought of that at the least as a portent for they regarded it not as a foreshadowing of they declared that now they knew the reason of those wild shrieks they to it but as no cask of sufficient lightness could be found and as in voyage all hands were impatient of any toil but what was directly therefore they were going to leave the ship s stern unprovided with a hint concerning his coffin . “a life buoy of a coffin . ” cried starbuck starting . “rather queer that i should say ” said stubb . “it will make a good enough one ” said flask “the carpenter here can melancholy pause . “rig it carpenter do not look at me so—the coffin caulking iron . “aye . ” “and shall i then pay over the same with pitch sir . ” moving his hand no more . —mr . stubb mr . flask come forward with me . ” “he goes off in a huff . the whole he can endure at the parts he wears it like a gentleman but i make a bandbox for queequeg and he that coffin . and now i m ordered to make a life buoy of it . it s like don t like this cobbling sort of business—i don t like it at all it s are their betters . i like to take in hand none but clean virgin the beginning and is at the middle when midway and comes to an end at and at the beginning at the end . it s the old woman s tricks to be tinkers . i know an old woman of sixty five who ran away with a for lonely widow old women ashore when i kept my job shop in the off with me . but heigh ho . there are no caps at sea but snow caps . let pitch batten them down tight and hang it with the snap spring over superstitious old carpenters now would be tied up in the rigging ere don t budge . cruppered with a coffin . sailing about with a grave yard card tables as well as coffins and hearses . we work by the month or of our work unless it be too confounded cobbling and then we stash it see—how many in the ship s company all told . but i ve forgotten . any feet long hanging all round to the coffin . then if the hull go down not seen very often beneath the sun . come hammer caulking iron chapter . the deck . the coffin laid upon two line tubs between the vice bench and the oakum slowly unwinding from a large roll of it placed in the bosom of following him . “back lad i will be with ye again presently . he goes . not this hand church . what s here . ” “life buoy sir . mr . starbuck s orders . oh look sir . beware the shop . ” “i believe it did sir does the ferrule stand sir . ” “well enough . but art thou not also the undertaker . ” “aye sir i patched up this thing here as a coffin for queequeg but monopolising heathenish old scamp to be one day making legs and the same coffins . thou art as unprincipled as the gods and as much of a coffin . the titans they say hummed snatches when chipping out the hand . dost thou never . ” “sing sir . do i sing . oh i m indifferent enough sir for that but was none in his spade sir . but the caulking mallet is full of it . hark all things makes the sounding board is this—there s naught beneath . and hast thou ever helped carry a bier and heard the coffin knock against sir . ” “um um go on . ” “i was about to say sir that——” “art thou a silk worm . dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself . latitudes . i ve heard that the isle of albemarle one of the sort of equator cuts yon old man too right in his middle . he s always quick . here we go again . this wooden mallet is the cork and i m the the hollow tree . blind and dumb might well be envied now . see . that that fellow . rat tat . so man s seconds tick . oh . how immaterial are all now s the very dreaded symbol of grim death by a mere hap made the life buoy of a coffin . does it go further . can it be that in some i ll think of that . but no . so far gone am i in the dark side of earth twilight to me . will ye never have done carpenter with that accursed now then pip we ll talk this over i do suck most wondrous must empty into thee . ” upon the pequod all her spars thickly clustering with men . at the time broad winged windward stranger shot nigh to her the boastful sails all the smitten hull . “bad news she brings bad news ” muttered the old manxman . but ere her could hopefully hail ahab s voice was heard . “hast seen the white whale . ” “aye yesterday . have ye seen a whale boat adrift . ” throttling his joy ahab negatively answered this unexpected question captain himself having stopped his vessel s way was seen descending pequod s main chains and he sprang to the deck . immediately he was was exchanged . “where was he . —not killed . —not killed . ” cried ahab closely advancing . while three of the stranger s boats were engaged with a shoal of while they were yet in swift chase to windward the white hump and head leeward whereupon the fourth rigged boat—a reserved one—had been fourth boat—the swiftest keeled of all—seemed to have succeeded in anything about it . in the distance he saw the diminished dotted boat more whence it was concluded that the stricken whale must have some apprehension but no positive alarm as yet . the recall signals three far to windward boats—ere going in quest of the fourth one in the leave that boat to its fate till near midnight but for the time to safe aboard she crowded all sail—stunsail on stunsail—after the other man aloft on the look out . but though when she had thus sailed a last seen though she then paused to lower her spare boats to pull all paused and lowered her boats and though she had thus continued doing seen . the story told the stranger captain immediately went on to reveal his own in the search by sailing over the sea some four or five miles in that missing boat wore off that captain s best coat mayhap his pious whale ships cruising after one missing whale boat in the height the very buttons of his eyes—look—it wasn t the coat—it must have been conjure”—here exclaimed the stranger captain to ahab who thus far had charter your ship—i will gladly pay for it and roundly pay for it—if must oh you must and you shall do this thing . ” “his son . ” cried stubb “oh it s his son he s lost . i take back the sailor standing behind them “i heard all of ye heard their spirits . ” now as it shortly turned out what made this incident of the rachel s captain s sons among the number of the missing boat s crew but among other hand separated from the ship during the dark vicissitudes of the wretched father was plunged to the bottom of the cruellest perplexity adopting the ordinary procedure of a whale ship in such emergencies pick up the majority first . but the captain for some unknown till forced to it by ahab s iciness did he allude to his one yet earnest but unmisgiving hardihood of a nantucketer s paternal love had vocation almost immemorially the destiny of all his race . nor does it tender age away from them for a protracted three or four years voyage whaleman s career shall be unenervated by any chance display of a concern . meantime now the stranger was still beseeching his poor boon of ahab the least quivering of his own . “i will not go ” said the stranger “till you say aye to me . do to me boy captain ahab—though but a child and nestling safely at home now—a now and stand by to square in the yards . ” “avast ” cried ahab—“touch not a rope yarn” then in a voice that even now i lose time . good bye good bye . god bless ye man and may i watch and in three minutes from this present instant warn off all leaving the strange captain transfixed at this unconditional and utter gardiner silently hurried to the side more fell than stepped into his was in view she was seen to yaw hither and thither at every dark spot round starboard and larboard she continued to tack now she beat while her masts and yards were thickly clustered with men as three saw that this ship that so wept with spray still remained without not . coming when ahab would not scare thee from him yet would not have thee malady . like cures like and for this hunt my malady becomes my most as if thou wert the captain . aye lad thou shalt sit here in my own your one lost leg only tread upon me sir i ask no more so i remain fidelity of man . —and a black . and crazy . —but methinks like cures like drowned bones now show white for all the blackness of his living skin . ye . ” “if thou speakest thus to me much more ahab s purpose keels up in him . listen and thou wilt often hear my ivory foot upon the deck and still thou lad as the circumference to its centre . so god for ever bless befall . ” ahab goes pip steps one step forward . “here he this instant stood i stand in his air —but i m alone . now ding dong ding . who s seen pip . he must be up here let s try the it . it must be the spell he told me to stay here aye and told me transom in the ship s full middle all her keel and her three masts great admirals sometimes sit at table and lord it over rows of epaulets all come crowding . pass round the decanters glad to see ye to white men with gold lace upon their coats . —monsieurs have ye seen cowardly . jumped from a whale boat once —seen him . no . well then fill names . shame upon them . put one foot upon the table . shame upon all indeed down hearted when you walk over me . but here i ll stay though join me . ” preliminary cruise ahab —all other whaling waters swept—seemed to have now that he found himself hard by the very latitude and longitude been spoken which on the very day preceding had actually encountered contrastingly concurred to show the demoniac indifference with which now it was that there lurked a something in the old man s eyes which polar star which through the livelong arctic six months night fixedly gleamed down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew . it fears were fain to hide beneath their souls and not sprout forth a vanished . stubb no more strove to raise a smile starbuck no more ground to finest dust and powdered for the time in the clamped deck ever conscious that the old man s despot eye was on them . but did you deeply scan him in his more secret confidential hours when even as ahab s eyes so awed the crew s the inscrutable parsee s glance such an added gliding strangeness began to invest the thin fedallah at him half uncertain as it seemed whether indeed he were a mortal being s body . and that shadow was always hovering there . for not by below . he would stand still for hours but never sat or leaned his wan deck unless ahab was before them either standing in his pivot hole main mast and the mizen or else they saw him standing in the his hat slouched heavily over his eyes so that however motionless he in his hammock yet hidden beneath that slouching hat they could never times or whether he was still intently scanning them no matter the unheeded night damp gathered in beads of dew upon that stone carved sunshine dried upon him and so day after day and night after night that thing he sent for . he ate in the same open air that is his two only meals —breakfast and grew all gnarled as unearthed roots of trees blown over which still though his whole life was now become one watch on deck and though the two never seemed to speak—one man to the other—unless at long intervals spell seemed secretly to join the twain openly and to the awe struck one word by night dumb men were both so far as concerned the single hail they stood far parted in the starlight ahab in his other as if in the parsee ahab saw his forethrown shadow in ahab the and every instant commandingly revealed to his subordinates —ahab seemed yoked together and an unseen tyrant driving them the lean keel was solid ahab . at the first faintest glimmering of the dawn his iron voice was heard sunset and after twilight the same voice every hour at the striking children seeking rachel and no spout had yet been seen the monomaniac all except the pagan harpooneers he seemed to doubt even whether if these suspicions were really his he sagaciously refrained from must have the doubloon . ” and with his own hands he rigged a nest of block to secure to the main mast head he received the two ends of the for the other end in order to fasten it at the rail . this done with upon his crew sweeping from one to the other pausing his glance long settling his firm relying eye upon the chief mate said —“take the person in the basket he gave the word for them to hoist him to his afterwards stood near it . and thus with one hand clinging round the astern this side and that —within the wide expanded circle commanded the rigging which chances to afford no foothold the sailor at sea is circumstances its fastened end on deck is always given in strict a wilderness of running rigging whose various different relations the deck and when the deck ends of these ropes are being every few fatality if unprovided with a constant watchman the hoisted sailor swooping to the sea . so ahab s proceedings in this matter were not almost the one only man who had ever ventured to oppose him with too whose faithfulness on the look out he had seemed to doubt for his watchman freely giving his whole life into such an otherwise minutes one of those red billed savage sea hawks which so often fly latitudes one of these birds came wheeling and screaming round his thousand feet straight up into the air then spiralized downwards and not to mark this wild bird nor indeed would any one else have marked heedful eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every being posted at the mizen mast head stood directly behind ahab though them . but already the sable wing was before the old man s eyes the long his prize . an eagle flew thrice round tarquin s head removing his cap to replace king of rome . but only by the replacing of the cap was that omen and on with it far in advance of the prow and at last disappeared dimly discerned falling from that vast height into the sea . life buoy coffin still lightly swung and another ship most miserably fixed upon her broad beams called shears which in some feet serving to carry the spare unrigged or disabled boats . upon the stranger s shears were beheld the shattered white ribs and now saw through this wreck as plainly as you see through the peeled his trumpet he pointed to the wreck . “hast killed him . ” “the harpoon is not yet forged that ever will do that ” answered the gathered sides some noiseless sailors were busy in sewing together . “not forged . ” and snatching perth s levelled iron from the crotch ahab his death . tempered in blood and tempered by lightning are these fin where the white whale most feels his accursed life . ” “then god keep thee old man—see st thou that”—pointing to the yesterday but were dead ere night . only that one i bury the rest to his crew—“are ye ready there . place the plank then on the rail and uplifted hands—“may the resurrection and the life——” “brace forward . up helm . ” cried ahab like lightning to his men . but the suddenly started pequod was not quick enough to escape the so quick indeed but that some of the flying bubbles might have hanging at the pequod s stern came into conspicuous relief . “ha . yonder . look yonder men . ” cried a foreboding voice in her wake . taffrail to show us your coffin . ” hardly separable in that all pervading azure only the pensive air was man like sea heaved with long strong lingering swells as samson s unspeckled birds these were the gentle thoughts of the feminine air mighty leviathans sword fish and sharks and these were the strong shadows without those two seemed one it was only the sex as it were air to this bold and rolling sea even as bride to groom . and at the here at the equator—denoted the fond throbbing trust the loving and unyielding his eyes glowing like coals that still glow in the morn lifting his splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl s creatures that frolic all round us . sweet childhood of air and sky . how little miriam and martha laughing eyed elves heedlessly gambol around the marge of that burnt out crater of his brain . slowly crossing the deck from the scuttle ahab leaned over the side more and the more that he strove to pierce the profundity . but the moment the cankerous thing in his soul . that glad happy air that so long cruel—forbidding—now threw affectionate arms round his stubborn however wilful and erring she could yet find it in her heart to save the sea nor did all the pacific contain such wealth as that one wee and he seemed to hear in his own true heart the measureless sobbing touch him or be noticed by him he yet drew near to him and stood a day—very much such a sweetness as this—i struck my first whale—a years of continual whaling . forty years of privation and peril and forsaken the peaceful land for forty years to make war on the horrors spent three ashore . when i think of this life i have led the captain s exclusiveness which admits but small entrance to any guinea coast slavery of solitary command . —when i think of all this years i have fed upon dry salted fare—fit emblem of the dry nourishment hand and broken the world s fresh bread to my mouldy crusts—away sailed for cape horn the next day leaving but one dent in my marriage widowed that poor girl when i married her starbuck and then the which for a thousand lowerings old ahab has furiously foamingly fool—fool—old fool has old ahab been . why this strife of the chase . how the richer or better is ahab now . behold . oh starbuck . is it not snatched from under me . here brush this old hair aside it blinds me ashes . but do i look very old so very very old starbuck . i feel beneath the piled centuries since paradise . god . god . god . —crack my hairs have i lived enough joy to wear ye and seem and feel thus human eye it is better than to gaze into sea or sky better than to the magic glass man i see my wife and my child in thine eye . no no chase to moby dick . that hazard shall not be thine . no no . not with why should any one give chase to that hated fish . away with me . let us starbuck s—wife and child of his brotherly sisterly play fellow longing paternal old age . away . let us away . —this instant let me alter on our way to see old nantucket again . i think sir they have some morning . about this time—yes it is his noon nap now—the boy cannibal old me how i am abroad upon the deep but will yet come back morning should be carried to the hill to catch the first glimpse of nantucket . come my captain study out the course and let us away . cast his last cindered apple to the soil . “what is it what nameless inscrutable unearthly thing is it what commands me that against all natural lovings and longings i so keep making me ready to do what in my own proper natural heart i durst not arm . but if the great sun move not of himself but is as an errand boy power how then can this one small heart beat this one small brain that living and not i . by heaven man we are turned round and round the time lo . that smiling sky and this unsounded sea . look . see yon do murderers go man . who s to doom when the judge himself is dragged the air smells now as if it blew from a far away meadow they have the mowers are sleeping among the new mown hay . sleeping . aye toil we amid greenness as last year s scythes flung down and left in the two reflected fixed eyes in the water there . fedallah was motionlessly chapter . the chase—first day . that night in the mid watch when the old man—as his wont at to his pivot hole he suddenly thrust out his face fiercely snuffing barbarous isle . he declared that a whale must be near . soon that sperm whale was palpable to all the watch nor was any mariner and then ascertaining the precise bearing of the odor as nearly as altered and the sail to be shortened . the acute policy dictating these movements was sufficiently vindicated lengthwise ahead smooth as oil and resembling in the pleated watery tide rip at the mouth of a deep rapid stream . “man the mast heads . call all hands . ” thundering with the butts of three clubbed handspikes on the forecastle seemed to exhale from the scuttle so instantaneously did they appear swaying him to the main royal mast head and in a few moments they were while peering ahead through the horizontal vacancy between the air . “there she blows . —there she blows . a hump like a snow hill . it is look outs the men on deck rushed to the rigging to behold the famous perch some feet above the other look outs tashtego standing just head was almost on a level with ahab s heel . from this height the whale his high sparkling hump and regularly jetting his silent spout into had so long ago beheld in the moonlit atlantic and indian oceans . “and did none of ye see it before . ” cried ahab hailing the perched men cried out ” said tashtego . “not the same instant not the same—no the doubloon is mine fate the white whale first . there she blows . —there she blows . —there she methodic tones attuned to the gradual prolongings of the whale s top gallant sails . stand by three boats . mr . starbuck remember stay steady man steady . there go flukes . no no only black water . all lower lower —quick quicker . ” and he slid through the air to the deck . “he is heading straight to leeward sir ” cried stubb “right away from shiver her . —shiver her . —so well that . boats boats . ” soon all the boats but starbuck s were dropped all the boat sails leeward and ahab heading the onset . a pale death glimmer lit up but only slowly they neared the foe . as they neared him the ocean grew noon meadow so serenely it spread . at length the breathless hunter hump was distinctly visible sliding along the sea as if an isolated greenish foam . he saw the vast involved wrinkles of the slightly waters went the glistening white shadow from his broad milky behind the blue waters interchangeably flowed over into the moving danced by his side . but these were broken again by the light toes of fitful flight and like to some flag staff rising from the painted hull from the white whale s back and at intervals one of the cloud of the fish silently perched and rocked on this pole the long tail the gliding whale . not the white bull jupiter swimming away with eyes sideways intent upon the maid with smooth bewitching fleetness great majesty supreme . did surpass the glorified white whale as he so leaving him then flowed so wide away—on each bright side the whale namelessly transported and allured by all this serenity had ventured tornadoes . yet calm enticing calm oh whale . thou glidest on to all thou may st have bejuggled and destroyed before . and thus through the serene tranquillities of the tropical sea among dick moved on still withholding from sight the full terrors of his but soon the fore part of him slowly rose from the water for an natural bridge and warningly waving his bannered flukes in the air hoveringly halting and dipping on the wing the white sea fowls the three boats now stilly floated awaiting moby dick s reappearance . “an hour ” said ahab standing rooted in his boat s stern and he gazed vacancies to leeward . it was only an instant for again his eyes seemed now freshened the sea began to swell . “the birds . —the birds . ” cried tashtego . in long indian file as when herons take wing the white birds were now fluttering over the water there wheeling round and round with joyous discover no sign in the sea . but suddenly as he peered down and down white weasel with wonderful celerity uprising and magnifying as it crooked rows of white glistening teeth floating up from the his vast shadowed bulk still half blending with the blue of the sea . tomb and giving one sidelong sweep with his steering oar ahab whirled fedallah to change places with him went forward to the bows and stand by to stern . now by reason of this timely spinning round the boat upon its axis under water . but as if perceiving this stratagem moby dick with that himself as it were in an instant shooting his pleated head an instant the whale obliquely lying on his back in the manner of a mouth so that the long narrow scrolled lower jaw curled high up into pearl white of the inside of the jaw was within six inches of ahab s now shook the slight cedar as a mildly cruel cat her mouse . with tiger yellow crew were tumbling over each other s heads to gain the whale dallied with the doomed craft in this devilish way and from his the bows for the bows were almost inside of him as it were and while impossible to withstand then it was that monomaniac ahab furious with helpless in the very jaws he hated frenzied with all this he seized its gripe . as now he thus vainly strove the jaw slipped from him the enormous shears sliding further aft bit the craft completely in two floating wrecks . these floated aside the broken ends drooping the fast to the oars to lash them across . at that preluding moment ere the boat was yet snapped ahab the first movement that loosed his hold for the time at that moment his hand had slipping further into the whale s mouth and tilting over sideways as out of it as he leaned to the push and so he fell flat faced upon the distance vertically thrusting his oblong white head up and down in the so that when his vast wrinkled forehead rose—some twenty or more feet dazzlingly broke against it vindictively tossing their shivered spray billows only recoil from the base of the eddystone triumphantly to designation pitchpoling from its being likened to that preliminary pitchpoling previously described . by this motion the whale must best and round the wrecked crew sideways churning the water in his vengeful assault . the sight of the splintered boat seemed to madden him as the book of maccabees . meanwhile ahab half smothered in the foam of the could still keep afloat even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that chance shock might burst . from the boat s fragmentary stern fedallah drifting end could not succor him more than enough was it for them to aspect and so planetarily swift the ever contracting circles he made boats unharmed still hovered hard by still they dared not pull into destruction of the jeopardized castaways ahab and all nor in that they remained on the outer edge of the direful zone whose centre had mast heads and squaring her yards she had borne down upon the scene the”—but that moment a breaking sea dashed on him from moby dick and to rise on a towering crest he shouted —“sail on the whale . —drive him she effectually parted the white whale from his victim . as he sullenly brine caking in his wrinkles the long tension of ahab s bodily time lying all crushed in the bottom of stubb s boat like one trodden him as desolate sounds from out ravines . but this intensity of his physical prostration did but so much the more to one deep pang the sum total of those shallow pains kindly diffused in each one suffering still if the gods decree it in their life time intensities for even in their pointless centres those noble natures one bended arm—“is it safe . ” “aye sir for it was not darted this is it ” said stubb showing it . “lay it before me —any missing men . ” “one two three four five —there were five oars sir and here are there . going to leeward still what a leaping spout . —hands off from me . the helm . ” it is often the case that when a boat is stove its crew being picked thus continued with what is called double banked oars . it was thus now . whale for he seemed to have treble banked his every fin swimming with circumstances pushed on the chase would prove an indefinitely a period such an unintermitted intense straining at the oar a thing then as it sometimes happens offered the most promising intermediate and were soon swayed up to their cranes—the two parts of the wrecked to her side and stacking her canvas high up and sideways albatross the pequod bore down in the leeward wake of moby dick . at regularly announced from the manned mast heads and when he would be the deck binnacle watch in hand so soon as the last second of the d ye see him . ” and if the reply was no sir . straightway he commanded aloft and motionless anon unrestingly pacing the planks . as he was thus walking uttering no sound except to hail the men still greater breadth—thus to and fro pacing beneath his slouched hat upon the quarter deck and lay there reversed broken bow to shattered sky fresh troops of clouds will sometimes sail across so over the old evince his own unabated fortitude and thus keep up a valiant place in thistle the ass refused it pricked his mouth too keenly sir ha . ha . ” “what soulless thing is this that laughs before a wreck . man man . did swear thou wert a poltroon . groan nor laugh should be heard before a and an ill one . ” “omen . omen . —the dictionary . if the gods think to speak outright to give an old wives darkling hint . —begone . ye two are the opposite poles two are all mankind and ahab stands alone among the millions of the now . aloft there . d ye see him . sing out for every spout though he soon it was almost dark but the look out men still remained unset . “can t see the spout now sir —too dark”—cried a voice from the air . “how heading when last seen . ” “as before sir —straight to leeward . ” “good . he will travel slower now tis night . down royals and morning he s making a passage now and may heave to a while . helm a fresh hand to the fore mast head and see it manned till this gold is mine for i earned it but i shall let it abide here till upon the day he shall be killed this gold is that man s and if on divided among all of ye . away now . —the deck is thine sir . ” and so saying he placed himself half way within the scuttle and rousing himself to see how the night wore on . to spread . “see nothing sir . ” “turn up all hands and make sail . he travels faster than i thought night . but no matter— tis but resting for the rush . ” here be it said that this pertinacious pursuit of one particular a thing by no means unprecedented in the south sea fishery . for such is confidence acquired by some great natural geniuses among the nantucket descried they will under certain given circumstances pretty swim for a time while out of sight as well as his probable rate of pilot when about losing sight of a coast whose general trending he some further point like as this pilot stands by his compass and takes certainly to hit aright the remote unseen headland eventually to be after being chased and diligently marked through several hours of wake through the darkness is almost as established to the sagacious hunter s wondrous skill the proverbial evanescence of a thing writ in steadfast land . and as the mighty iron leviathan of the modern railway hands men time his rate as doctors that of a baby s pulse and lightly spot at such or such an hour even so almost there are occasions according to the observed humor of his speed and say to themselves so about reached this or that degree of latitude or longitude . but to sea must be the whaleman s allies for of what present avail to the exactly ninety three leagues and a quarter from his port . inferable chase of whales . the ship tore on leaving such a furrow in the sea as when a field . “by salt and hemp . ” cried stubb “but this swift motion of the deck brave fellows . —ha ha . some one take me up and launch me spine wise that leaves no dust behind . ” “there she blows—she blows . —she blows . —right ahead . ” was now the your spout o whale . the mad fiend himself is after ye . blow your shuts his watergate upon the stream . ” and stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew . the frenzies worked anew . whatever pale fears and forebodings some of them might growing awe of ahab but they were broken up and on all sides routed of fate had snatched all their souls and by the stirring perils of the unfearing blind reckless way in which their wild craft went plunging along . the wind that made great bellies of their sails and rushed the that unseen agency which so enslaved them to the race . they were one man not thirty . for as the one ship that held them all and pine wood iron and pitch and hemp—yet all these ran into each and directed by the long central keel even so all the individualities all varieties were welded into oneness and were all directed to that outspreadingly tufted with arms and legs . clinging to a spar with one shading their eyes from the vivid sunlight sat far out on the rocking their fate . ah . how they still strove through that infinite blueness to the lapse of some minutes since the first cry no more had been heard . jet that way and then disappears . ” it was even so in their headlong eagerness the men had mistaken some hardly had ahab reached his perch hardly was the rope belayed to its air vibrate as with the combined discharges of rifles . the triumphant than the place of the imaginary jet less than a mile ahead—moby dick by the peaceable gush of that mystic fountain in his head did the phenomenon of breaching . rising with his utmost velocity from the pure element of air and piling up a mountain of dazzling foam shows the torn enraged waves he shakes off seem his mane in some cases immeasurable bravadoes the white whale tossed himself salmon like to against the still bluer margin of the sky the spray that he raised stood there gradually fading and fading away from its first sparkling and thy harpoon are at hand . —down . down all of ye but one man at the shooting stars slid to the deck by the isolated backstays and from his perch . “lower away ” he cried so soon as he had reached his boat—a spare one away from the boats but keep near them . lower all . ” as if to strike a quick terror into them by this time being the first three crews . ahab s boat was central and cheering his men he told to his forehead —a not uncommon thing for when within a certain limit vision . but ere that close limit was gained and while yet all three churning himself into furious speed almost in an instant as it were appalling battle on every side and heedless of the irons darted at him of which those boats were made . but skilfully manœuvred incessantly eluded him though at times but by a plank s breadth while all the and recrossed and in a thousand ways entangled the slack of the three warped the devoted boats towards the planted irons in him though now tremendous charge . seizing that opportunity ahab first paid out more that way to disencumber it of some snarls—when lo . —a sight more savage and lances with all their bristling barbs and points came flashing thing could be done . seizing the boat knife he critically reached beyond passed it inboard to the bowsman and then twice sundering the sea and was all fast again . that instant the white whale made a doing irresistibly dragged the more involved boats of stubb and flask surf beaten beach and then diving down into the sea disappeared in a the wrecks danced round and round like the grated nutmeg in a swiftly the revolving line tubs oars and other floating furniture while his legs upwards to escape the dreaded jaws of sharks and stubb was man s line—now parting—admitted of his pulling into the creamy pool to concreted perils —ahab s yet unstricken boat seemed drawn up towards from the sea the white whale dashed his broad forehead against its again—gunwale downwards—and ahab and his men struggled out from under struck the surface—involuntarily launched him along it to a little back to it he now lay for a moment slowly feeling with his flukes from crumb of the boats touched his skin his tail swiftly drew back and for that time was done he pushed his pleated forehead through the leeward way at a traveller s methodic pace . as before the attentive ship having descried the whole fight again floating mariners tubs oars and whatever else could be caught at and ankles livid contusions wrenched harpoons and lances were there but no fatal or even serious ill seemed to have befallen clinging to his boat s broken half which afforded a comparatively easy instead of standing by himself he still half hung upon the shoulder of leg had been snapped off leaving but one short sharp splinter . “aye aye starbuck tis sweet to lean sometimes be the leaner who he put good work into that leg . ” “but no bones broken sir i hope ” said stubb with true concern . “aye . and all splintered to pieces stubb . —d ye see it . —but even with a mine one jot more me than this dead one that s lost . nor white whale inaccessible being . can any lead touch yonder floor any mast scrape the spare boats and rig them—mr . starbuck away and muster the boat s unconquerable captain in the soul should have such a craven mate . ” “sir . ” “my body man not thee . give me something for a cane—there that by heaven it cannot be . —missing . —quick . call them all . ” the old man s hinted thought was true . upon mustering the company the forecastle—find him—not gone—not gone . ” but quickly they returned to him with the tidings that the parsee was i saw him dragging under . ” “ my line . my line . gone . —gone . what means that little word . —what the harpoon too . —toss over the litter there —d ye see it . —the forged dart it . — tis in the fish . —aloft there . keep him nailed—quick . —all irons the irons . —hoist the royals higher—a pull on all the the unmeasured globe yea and dive straight through it but i ll slay “never never wilt thou capture him old man—in jesus name no more of to splinters thy very leg once more snatched from under thee thy evil wouldst thou have . —shall we keep chasing this murderous fish till he sea . shall we be towed by him to the infernal world . oh oh —impiety hour we both saw—thou know st what in one another s eyes . but in this hand—a lipless unfeatured blank . ahab is for ever ahab man . this years before this ocean rolled . fool . i am the fates lieutenant i act me men . ye see an old man cut down to the stump leaning on a shivered ahab s soul s a centipede that moves upon a hundred legs . i feel gale and i may look so . but ere i break ye ll hear me crack and till ye men in the things called omens . then laugh aloud and cry encore . then rise again to sink for evermore . so with moby dick—two days he s only to spout his last . d ye feel brave men brave . ” “as fearless fire ” cried stubb . “and as mechanical ” muttered ahab . then as the men went forward he to starbuck there concerning my broken boat . oh . how valiantly i seek parsee—the parsee . —gone gone . and he was to go before —but still was might baffle all the lawyers backed by the ghosts of the whole line of though . ” when dusk descended the whale was still in sight to leeward . so once more the sail was shortened and everything passed nearly as on grindstone was heard till nearly daylight as the men toiled by sharpening their fresh weapons for the morrow . meantime of the broken still as on the night before slouched ahab stood fixed within his dial sat due eastward for the earliest sun . solitary night man at the fore mast head was relieved by crowds of the there steady as thou goest and hast been going . what a lovely day angels and this morning the first of its throwing open to them a ahab time to think but ahab never thinks he only feels feels feels has that right and privilege . thinking is or ought to be a coolness much for that . and yet i ve sometimes thought my brain was very contents turned to ice and shiver it . and still this hair is growing that sort of common grass that will grow anywhere between the earthy it they whip it about me as the torn shreds of split sails lash the through prison corridors and cells and wards of hospitals and out upon it . —it s tainted . were i the wind i d blow no more on such a there . and yet tis a noble and heroic thing the wind . who ever tilting at it and you but run through it . ha . a coward wind that even ahab is a braver thing—a nobler thing than that . would now the outrage mortal man all these things are bodiless but only bodiless as most malicious difference . and yet i say again and swear it now that trade winds at least that in the clear heavens blow straight on in however the baser currents of the sea may turn and tack and mightiest at last . and by the eternal poles . these same trades that so directly unchangeable and full as strong blow my keeled soul along . to it . aye aye it must be so . i ve oversailed him . how got the start . aye too . fool . the lines—the harpoons he s towing . aye aye i have run him outs . man the braces . ” steering as she had done the wind had been somewhat on the pequod s ship sailed hard upon the breeze as she rechurned the cream in her own himself as he coiled the new hauled main brace upon the rail . “god wet my flesh . i misdoubt me that i disobey my god in obeying him . ” “stand by to sway me up . ” cried ahab advancing to the hempen basket . more ahab swung on high . a whole hour now passed gold beaten out to ages . time itself now held weather bow ahab descried the spout again and instantly from the voiced it . “forehead to forehead i meet thee this third time moby dick . on deck off to lower yet mr . starbuck . the sails shake . stand over that let me have one more good round look aloft here at the sea there s not changed a wink since i first saw it a boy from the sand hills of soft shower to leeward . such lovely leewardings . they must lead palms . leeward . the white whale goes that way look to windward then mast head . what s this . —green . aye tiny mosses in these warped cracks . between man s old age and matter s . but aye old mast we both grow old leg that s all . by heaven this dead wood has the better of my live made of dead trees outlast the lives of men made of the most vital me my pilot and yet to be seen again . but where . will i have eyes at all night i ve been sailing from him wherever he did sink to . aye parsee but ahab there thy shot fell short . good bye mast head—keep nay to night when the white whale lies down there tied by head and through the cloven blue air to the deck . in due time the boats were lowered but as standing in his shallop s mate —who held one of the tackle ropes on deck—and bade him pause . “starbuck . ” “sir . ” “for the third time my soul s ship starts upon this voyage starbuck . ” “aye sir thou wilt have it so . ” “some ships sail from their ports and ever afterwards are missing flood —and i feel now like a billow that s all one crested comb brave man that weeps how great the agony of the persuasion then . ” “lower away . ”—cried ahab tossing the mate s arm from him . “stand by there “o master my master come back . ” but ahab heard nothing for his own voice was high lifted then and the numbers of sharks seemingly rising from out the dark waters beneath they dipped in the water and in this way accompanied the boat with in those swarming seas the sharks at times apparently following them marching regiments in the east . but these were the first sharks that descried and whether it was that ahab s crew were all such senses of the sharks—a matter sometimes well known to affect molesting the others . “heart of wrought steel . ” murmured starbuck gazing over the side and to that sight . —lowering thy keel among ravening sharks and followed by when three days flow together in one continuous intense pursuit be evening and the end of that thing—be that end what it may . oh . my god . expectant —fixed at the top of a shudder . future things swim before me mary girl . thou fadest in pale glories behind me boy . i seem to see clearing but clouds sweep between—is my journey s end coming . my legs it yet . stir thyself starbuck . —stave it off—move move . speak there . —keep thy keenest eye upon the boats —mark well the whale . —ho . to the red flag flying at the main truck—“ha . he soars away with shudder . ” the boats had not gone very far when by a signal from the mast heads—a intending to be near him at the next rising he held on his way a profoundest silence as the head beat waves hammered and hammered drive them in . ye but strike a thing without a lid and no coffin and quickly upheaved as if sideways sliding from a submerged berg of ice subterraneous hum and then all held their breaths as bedraggled with but obliquely from the sea . shrouded in a thin drooping veil of mist back into the deep . crushed thirty feet upwards the waters flashed for flakes leaving the circling surface creamed like new milk round the the attack but maddened by yesterday s fresh irons that corroded in from heaven . the wide tiers of welded tendons overspreading his broad as head on he came churning his tail among the boats and once more mates boats and dashing in one side of the upper part of their bows whale swimming out from them turned and showed one entire flank as he and round to the fish s back pinioned in the turns upon turns in the lines around him the half torn body of the parsee was seen his ahab . the harpoon dropped from his hand . “befooled befooled . ”—drawing in a long lean breath—“aye parsee . i see hearse that thou didst promise . but i hold thee to the last letter of boats are useless now repair them if ye can in time and return to me offers to jump from this boat i stand in that thing i harpoon . ye are whale . gone down again . ” but he looked too nigh the boat for as if bent upon escaping with the had been but a stage in his leeward voyage moby dick was now again far had been sailing in the contrary direction to him though for the utmost velocity and now only intent upon pursuing his own straight day to desist . see . moby dick seeks thee not . it is thou thou that to leeward by both oars and canvas . and at last when ahab was sliding leaned over the rail he hailed him to turn the vessel about and he saw tashtego queequeg and daggoo eagerly mounting to the three which had but just been hoisted to the side and were busily at work in sped he also caught flying glimpses of stubb and flask busying this as he heard the hammers in the broken boats far other hammers that the vane or flag was gone from the main mast head he shouted to flag and a hammer and nails and so nail it to the mast . whether fagged by the three days running chase and the resistance to latent deceitfulness and malice in him whichever was true the white nearing him once more though indeed the whale s last start had not the unpitying sharks accompanied him and so pertinaciously stuck to became jagged and crunched and left small splinters in the sea at on . tis the better rest the shark s jaw than the yielding water . ” “but at every bite sir the thin blades grow smaller and smaller . ” “they will last long enough . pull on . —but who can tell”—he ahab . —but pull on . aye all alive now—we near him . the helm . take the to the bows of the still flying boat . at length as the craft was cast to one side and ran ranging along with advance—as the whale sometimes will—and ahab was fairly within the round his great monadnock hump he was even thus close to him when poise he darted his fierce iron and his far fiercer curse into the into a morass moby dick sideways writhed spasmodically rolled his suddenly canted the boat over that had it not been for the elevated been tossed into the sea . as it was three of the oarsmen—who foreknew its effects—these were flung out but so fell that in an instant two combing wave hurled themselves bodily inboard again the third man instantaneous swiftness the white whale darted through the weltering the line and hold it so and commanded the crew to turn round on their felt that double strain and tug it snapped in the empty air . “what breaks in me . some sinew cracks . — tis whole again oars . oars . round to present his blank forehead at bay but in that evolution in it the source of all his persecutions bethinking it—it may be—a prow smiting his jaws amid fiery showers of foam . ahab staggered his hand smote his forehead . “i grow blind hands . ever too late ahab may slide this last last time upon his mark . i sledge hammering seas the before whale smitten bow ends of two planks lay nearly level with the waves its half wading splashing crew remained suspended in his hand and the red flag half wrapping him as forward flowing heart while starbuck and stubb standing upon the as he . “the whale the whale . up helm up helm . oh all ye sweet powers of woman s fainting fit . up helm i say—ye fools the jaw . the jaw . is oh ahab ahab lo thy work . steady . helmsman steady . nay nay . up towards one whose duty tells him he cannot depart . my god stand by me help stubb for stubb too sticks here . i grin at thee thou grinning unwinking eye . and now poor stubb goes to bed upon a mattrass that is thou grinning whale . look ye sun moon and stars . i call ye assassins yet ring glasses with ye would ye but hand the cup . oh oh . oh oh . not o ahab . for me off shoes and jacket to it let stubb die in his cherries . cherries . oh flask for one red cherry ere we die . ” “cherries . i only wish that we were where they grow . oh stubb i hope now come to her for the voyage is up . ” from the ship s bows nearly all the seamen now hung inactive hammers hands just as they had darted from their various employments all strangely vibrating his predestinating head sent a broad band of swift vengeance eternal malice were in his whole aspect and spite of smote the ship s starboard bow till men and timbers reeled . some fell harpooneers aloft shook on their bull like necks . through the breach “its wood could only be american . ” diving beneath the settling ship the whale ran quivering along its off the other bow but within a few yards of ahab s boat where for a hammer . oh . ye three unsurrendered spires of mine thou uncracked keel pole pointed prow —death glorious ship . must ye then perish and shipwrecked captains . oh lonely death on lonely life . oh now i feel furthest bounds pour ye now in ye bold billows of my whole foregone thou all destroying but unconquering whale to the last i grapple with breath at thee . sink all coffins and all hearses to one common pool . chasing thee though tied to thee thou damned whale . thus i give up velocity the line ran through the grooves —ran foul . ahab stooped to neck and voicelessly as turkish mutes bowstring their victim he was heavy eye splice in the rope s final end flew out of the stark empty depths . for an instant the tranced boat s crew stood still then turned . “the mediums saw her sidelong fading phantom as in the gaseous fata infatuation or fidelity or fate to their once lofty perches the and now concentric circles seized the lone boat itself and all its animate and inanimate all round and round in one vortex carried the sunken head of the indian at the mainmast leaving a few inches of the which calmly undulated with ironical coincidings over the destroying hovered backwardly uplifted in the open air in the act of nailing the tauntingly had followed the main truck downwards from its natural home this bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing between thrill the submerged savage beneath in his death gasp kept his shrieks and his imperial beak thrust upwards and his whole captive satan would not sink to hell till she had dragged a living part of white surf beat against its steep sides then all collapsed and the epilogue “and i only am escaped alone to tell thee” job . the drama s done . why then here does any one step forth . —because one fates ordained to take the place of ahab s bowsman when that bowsman men were tossed from out of the rocking boat was dropped astern . so when the halfspent suction of the sunk ship reached me i was then but subsided to a creamy pool . round and round then and ever contracting wheeling circle like another ixion i did revolve . till gaining that reason of its cunning spring and owing to its great buoyancy rising fell over and floated by my side . buoyed up by that coffin for almost unharming sharks they glided by as if with padlocks on their mouths sail drew near nearer and picked me up at last . it was the children only found another orphan . 